1 pound chopped mixed nuts 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough 1 cup butter , melted 1 cup white sugar 1 cup water 1/2 cup honey 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 teaspoon grated lemon zest  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter a 9x13 inch baking dish . Toss together cinnamon and nuts . Unroll phyllo and cut whole stack in half to fit the dish . Cover phyllo with a damp cloth while assembling the baklava , to keep it from drying out . Place two sheets of phyllo in the bottom of the prepared dish . Brush generously with butter . Sprinkle 2 to 3 tablespoons of the nut mixture on top . Repeat layers until all ingredients are used , ending with about 6 sheets of phyllo . Using a sharp knife , cut baklava (all the way through to the bottom of the dish) into four long rows , then (nine times) diagonally to make 36 diamond shapes . Bake in preheated oven 50 minutes , until golden and crisp . While baklava is baking , combine sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil . Stir in honey , vanilla and lemon zest , reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes . Remove the baklava from the oven and immediately spoon the syrup over it . Let cool completely before serving . Store uncovered . 
1 clove garlic 1 (19 ounce) can garbanzo beans , half the liquid reserved 4 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons tahini 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon salt black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil  In a blender , chop the garlic . Pour garbanzo beans into blender , reserving about a tablespoon for garnish . Place lemon juice , tahini , chopped garlic and salt in blender . Blend until creamy and well mixed . Transfer the mixture to a medium serving bowl . Sprinkle with pepper and pour olive oil over the top . Garnish with reserved garbanzo beans . 
1 1/8 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast  Place all ingredients in bread pan of your bread machine , select Dough setting and start . When dough has risen long enough , machine will beep . Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface . Gently roll and stretch dough into a 12 inch rope . With a sharp knife , divide dough into 8 pieces . Roll each into a smooth ball . With a rolling pin , roll each ball into a 6 to 7 inch circle . Set aside on a lightly floured countertop . cover with a towel . Let pitas rise about 30 minutes until slightly puffy . Preheat oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C) . Place 2 or 3 pitas on a wire cake rack . Place cake rack directly on oven rack . Bake pitas 4 to 5 minutes until puffed and tops begin to brown . Remove from oven and immediately place pitas in a sealed brown paper bag or cover them with a damp kitchen towel until soft . Once pitas a softened , either cut in half or split top edge for half or whole pitas . They can be stored in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for several days or in the freezer for 1 or 2 months . 
6 tablespoons olive oil 1 large white onion , sliced into rings 1 1/3 cups uncooked green lentils 3/4 cup uncooked long-grain white rice salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup plain yogurt or sour cream (optional)  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onions , and cook about 10 minutes , until browned . Remove from heat , and set aside . Place lentils in a medium saucepan with enough lightly salted water to cover . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer about 15 minutes . Stir rice and enough water to cover into the saucepan with the lentils . Season with salt and pepper . Cover saucepan , and continue to simmer 15 to 20 minutes , until rice and lentils are tender . Mix half the onions into the lentil mixture . Top with yogurt or sour cream and remaining onions to serve . 
1/4 cup butter 2 ounces uncooked spaghetti , broken 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1 1/4 cups uncooked jasmine rice 2 1/4 cups vegetable broth salt and pepper to taste 1/2 pound fresh asparagus , trimmed and cut into 2 inch pieces 1/2 cup cashew halves  Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat . Increase heat to medium , and stir in spaghetti , cooking until coated with the melted butter and lightly browned . Stir onion and garlic into the saucepan , and cook about 2 minutes , until tender . Stir in jasmine rice , and cook about 5 minutes . Pour in vegetable broth . Season mixture with salt and pepper . Bring the mixture to a boil , cover , and cook 20 minutes , until rice is tender and liquid has been absorbed . Place asparagus in a separate medium saucepan with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until tender but firm . Mix asparagus and cashew halves into the rice mixture , and serve warm . 
1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained , liquid reserved 1 clove garlic , crushed 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon olive oil  In a blender or food processor combine garbanzo beans , garlic , cumin , salt and olive oil . Blend on low speed , gradually adding reserved bean liquid , until desired consistency is achieved . 
12 pita bread pockets 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon dried chervil  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Cut each pita bread into 8 triangles . Place triangles on lined cookie sheet . In a small bowl , combine the oil , pepper , salt , basil and chervil . Brush each triangle with oil mixture . Bake in the preheated oven for about 7 minutes , or until lightly browned and crispy . Watch carefully , as they tend to burn easily ! 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1 cup uncooked basmati rice 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 quart chicken stock 1 1/2 pounds ground turkey 2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , drained and rinsed 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1 bunch chopped fresh cilantro (optional) 1 bunch chopped fresh parsley (optional) 1/4 cup pine nuts (optional) salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , and cook 1 minute . Stir in rice , cumin , coriander , turmeric , and cayenne pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , then pour in chicken stock . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes . Place the turkey in a skillet over medium heat , and cook until evenly brown . Gently mix cooked turkey , garbanzo beans , black beans , cilantro , parsley , and pine nuts into the cooked rice . Season with salt and pepper . 
1 eggplant 1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup tahini 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 2 cloves garlic , minced salt and pepper to taste 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Place eggplant on baking sheet , and make holes in the skin with a fork . Roast it for 30 to 40 minutes , turning occasionally , or until soft . Remove from oven , and place into a large bowl of cold water . Remove from water , and peel skin off . Place eggplant , lemon juice , tahini , sesame seeds , and garlic in an electric blender , and puree . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Transfer eggplant mixture to a medium size mixing bowl , and slowly mix in olive oil . Refrigerate for 3 hours before serving . 
1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained , liquid reserved 2 ounces fresh jalapeno pepper , sliced 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 2 tablespoons lemon juice 3 cloves garlic , minced  In a blender or food processor , combine garbanzo beans , jalapeno , cumin , lemon juice , garlic and 1 tablespoon of the reserved bean liquid . Blend until smooth . 
1 cup couscous 1 cup boiling water 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup diced red bell pepper 4 green onions , sliced 1 cup cherry tomatoes 1 cup fresh basil leaves 1 pinch salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 1 dash balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Stir couscous into boiling water and return water to a boil . Cover and remove pot from heat . Let stand 5 minutes , then fluff with a fork . While the couscous is cooking , heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in garlic , green onions and peppers ; saute briefly . Stir in tomatoes , basil , cooked couscous , salt and pepper . Mix together and transfer to a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish . Splash some balsamic vinegar on top . Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 20 minutes . Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese while still warm . 
4 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 pound ground lamb 3 tablespoons grated onion 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 tablespoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 28 bamboo skewers , soaked in water for 30 minutes  Mash the garlic into a paste with the salt using a mortar and pestle or the flat side of a chef's knife on your cutting board . Mix the garlic into the lamb along with the onion , parsley , coriander , cumin , cinnamon , allspice , cayenne pepper , ginger , and pepper in a mixing bowl until well blended . Form the mixture into 28 balls . Form each ball around the tip of a skewer , flattening into a 2 inch oval ; repeat with the remaining skewers . Place the kebabs onto a baking sheet , cover , and refrigerate at least 30 minutes , or up to 12 hours . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat , and lightly oil grate . Cook the skewers on the preheated grill , turning occasionally , until the lamb has cooked to your desired degree of doneness , about 6 minutes for medium . 
1 large eggplant 1 head garlic 1 tablespoon refined olive oil 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons tahini 1 teaspoon Splenda® (optional) salt and pepper to taste  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F . Pierce the skin of the eggplant in 6 to 10 places with a knife . This will prevent the eggplant from exploding . Place on a roasting pan . Place in a 375 degrees F oven and roast for 30 minutes . With good knife , cut off the top 1/2 inch of the head of garlic exposing the fleshy tops of most of the cloves . Thoroughly coat the garlic with the olive oil and place on the roasting pan next to the eggplant for the last 20 minutes of cooking . Remove eggplant and garlic and let cool . Once the eggplant is cool enough to handle , peel off and discard the skin and place the flesh in a colander and allow it drain for about 10 minutes . Meanwhile , pull apart the garlic cloves . A simple squeeze at the bottom of each clove should easily render the roasted flesh . Set this aside . (You probably won't use all of the roasted garlic for this recipe so store the remainder in a small jar and drizzle olive oil over it . Try to use it up within a few days.) I prefer to mix this in a food processor but it can be done by hand too . Add the eggplant , lemon juice , tahini and about 2 or 3 tsps of the roasted garlic . Blend well . Taste test and add more garlic if desired as well as some salt and pepper . If the eggplant is a little bitter , then add a tsp of Splenda . 
8 cut up chicken pieces 8 medium potatoes , peeled and quartered salt to taste ground white pepper to taste 4 cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil 1 cup fresh lemon juice  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place chicken and potatoes in a large baking dish . Season generously with salt and white pepper . In a bowl , stir together garlic , olive oil , and lemon juice . Pour over chicken and potatoes . Cover dish with foil . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes . Remove foil , increase heat to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C) , and cook until chicken and potatoes are golden , about 30 minutes . 
1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3/4 cup plain yogurt 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons tomato paste 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 2 inch pieces 2 onions , cut into large chunks 1 large green bell pepper , cut into large chunks 1 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley  Whisk together the lemon juice , vegetable oil , plain yogurt , garlic , tomato paste , salt , oregano , pepper , allspice , cinnamon , and cardamom in a large bowl ; add the chicken and toss to coat . Transfer the chicken mixture into a large plastic bag ; refrigerate at least 4 hours . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat and lightly oil grate . Thread the chicken , onions , and pepper onto metal skewers . Cook on preheated grill until the chicken is golden and no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes each side . Sprinkle the parsley over the skewers . 
1 (16 ounce) package frozen cut green beans 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil salt to taste 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  Place the green beans into a large pot , and drizzle with olive oil . Season with salt to taste , and put the lid on the pot . Cook over medium-high heat , stirring occasionally , until beans are cooked to your desired doneness . Syrians like it cooked until the green beans are turning brownish in color . The idea is not to saute them , but to let them steam in the moisture released by the ice crystals . Add cilantro and garlic to the beans , and continue to cook just until the cilantro has started to wilt . Eat as a main course by scooping up with warm pita bread or serve as a side dish . 
1 cup bulgur 3 tomatoes , seeded and chopped 2 cucumbers , peeled and chopped 3 green onions , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/3 cup fresh mint leaves 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 cup lemon juice 2/3 cup olive oil  Place cracked wheat in bowl and cover with 2 cups boiling water . Soak for 30 minutes ; drain and squeeze out excess water . In a mixing bowl , combine the wheat , tomatoes , cucumbers , onions , garlic , parsley , mint , salt , lemon juice , and olive oil . Toss and refrigerate for at least 4 hours before serving . Toss again prior to serving . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons plain low-fat yogurt 2 tablespoons ketchup 2 tablespoons prepared mustard 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 2 teaspoons paprika 1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon curry powder (optional) 3 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces Dipping Sauce : 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 cup plain low-fat yogurt 3 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 teaspoon salt  In a medium bowl , stir together oil , yogurt , ketchup , and mustard . Season with garlic powder , paprika , allspice , black pepper , cinnamon , and curry powder . Stir in chicken pieces , coating all sides with marinade . Cover bowl , and refrigerate overnight . To make dipping sauce , mix together mayonnaise , yogurt , garlic , and salt . Cover , and refrigerate . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Transfer chicken pieces to a shallow baking dish . Bake in a preheated oven 30 minutes . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 tablespoon salt 1 cup dry red lentils , rinsed and drained 6 cups water 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 bunch collard greens - rinsed , stemmed and thinly sliced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1/3 cup lemon juice  Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat , stir in onion and salt ; cook until softened and translucent , about 4 minutes . Stir in lentils , and cook for 1 minute . Pour in water , then bring to a boil over high heat , then turn heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the lentils are tender , about 15 minutes . Meanwhile , heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add collard greens , and cook until wilted , about 10 minutes . When the lentils are tender , stir in the collard greens and season with cumin , cinnamon , and garlic ; allow to simmer 10 more minutes . Stir in lemon juice before serving . 
1 1/2 cups couscous 3 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon curry powder 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1/2 cup raisins 1 bunch cilantro , chopped 1/2 cup slivered almonds , toasted  Pour couscous into a bowl . Mix chicken stock , curry powder , salt , pepper , olive oil , and raisins in a saucepan and bring to a boil ; remove from heat . Pour the boiling liquid over the couscous . Seal the bowl with plastic wrap and allow to sit for 10 minutes . Fluff couscous with a fork . Top with cilantro and almonds . 
1 teaspoon olive oil 1 cup sliced onion 2 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs 1 tablespoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 cup red wine 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1 cup fat-free , reduced-sodium chicken broth  Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned lightly brown , about 7 minutes . Remove onion from skillet , and set aside . Increase heat to medium-high . Season one side of the chicken thighs with half of the garam masala and curry powder . Place the chicken seasoned-side down into the skillet , and season the other side with the remaining garam masala and curry powder . Continue cooking chicken until browned on both sides , about 4 minutes on each side . Pour in the red wine and red wine vinegar . Simmer for about 30 seconds , scraping up and browned bits from the pan . Stir in the prepared onion and chicken broth . Bring to a boil . Cover and reduce heat to medium-low . Simmer the chicken thighs until no longer pink in the center , about 20 minutes . 
2 pita breads 8 leaves romaine lettuce , torn into bite-size pieces 2 green onions , chopped 1 cucumber , chopped 3 tomatoes , cut into wedges 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1 clove garlic , peeled and chopped 2 tablespoons sumac powder 1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Toast pitas 5 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven , until crisp . Remove from heat , and break into bite size pieces . In a large bowl , toss together toasted pita pieces , romaine lettuce , green onions , cucumber , and tomatoes . In a small bowl , mix the parsley , garlic , sumac powder , lemon juice , olive oil , salt , pepper , and mint . Pour over the pita mixture , and toss just before serving . 
1 1/2 pounds lean ground beef 1 medium onion , grated 1/2 cup finely chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 6 wooden or metal skewers  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat . If using wooden skewers , soak in water . In a large bowl , mix together the ground beef , onion , parsley , cayenne , allspice , salt and pepper until evenly blended . Divide into 6 portions , and press around one end of the skewers to form a log shape approximately 1 inch thick and 6 inches long . Grill for 10 to 15 minutes , turning occasionally , until meat is no longer pink . 
For Sauce : 1 (6 ounce) container plain yogurt 1/2 cucumber - peeled , seeded , and finely chopped 1 teaspoon dried dill weed salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon mayonnaise (optional) For Falafel : 1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , drained 1 onion , chopped 1/2 cup fresh parsley 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 egg 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1 dash pepper 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 cup dry bread crumbs oil for frying 2 pita breads , cut in half (optional) 1 cup chopped tomatoes (optional)  In a small bowl combine yogurt , cucumber , dill , salt , pepper and mayonnaise and mix well . Chill for at least 30 minutes . In a large bowl mash chickpeas until thick and pasty ; don't use a blender , as the consistency will be too thin . In a blender , process onion , parsley and garlic until smooth . Stir into mashed chickpeas . In a small bowl combine egg , cumin , coriander , salt , pepper , cayenne , lemon juice and baking powder . Stir into chickpea mixture along with olive oil . Slowly add bread crumbs until mixture is not sticky but will hold together ; add more or less bread crumbs , as needed . Form 8 balls and then flatten into patties . Heat 1 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Fry patties in hot oil until brown on both sides . Serve two falafels in each pita half topped with chopped tomatoes and cucumber sauce . 
1 1/8 cups water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast  Place ingredients in the pan of the bread machine in the order recommended by the manufacturer . Select Dough cycle ; press Start . Preheat oven to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C) . Once the dough has risen , turn it out onto a lightly floured surface . Divide the dough into eight equal pieces and form into rounds . Cover the rounds with a damp cloth and let rest . Roll dough into thin flat circles , about 8 inches in diameter . Cook two at a time on preheated baking sheets or a baking stone until puffed up and golden brown , about 5 minutes . Repeat for remaining loaves . 
4 cloves garlic 1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons tahini paste 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes , drained 1/4 cup finely shredded fresh basil 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/8 teaspoon paprika (optional)  Place garlic , salt , tahini , and lemon juice into a food processor ; process until smooth . Pour in the garbanzo beans and 1/2 cup olive oil ; process until smooth again , scraping the sides of the bowl occasionally . Once smooth , add the sun-dried tomatoes , and pulse until they have been chopped to very small pieces and are incorporated into the hummus . Finally , add the basil , and pulse a few times until mixed in . Spread the hummus into a shallow serving dish , and make a few decorative grooves on top . Refrigerate at least 1 hour , then drizzle with 2 tablespoons olive oil and sprinkle with paprika before serving . 
5 unpeeled garlic cloves 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1/2 cup tahini 1/3 cup fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place unpeeled garlic cloves in the middle of a large square of aluminum foil . Drizzle cloves with 1 tablespoon of olive oil ; wrap in foil . Roast in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes until golden brown . Remove from the oven , and allow to cool . When slightly cooled , squeeze roasted garlic out of peels . Combine roasted garlic , garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , cumin , salt , and the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in the work bowl of a food processor . Process until very creamy . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/3 cups chopped onion 1 cup thinly sliced bell peppers , any color 2 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chopped tomatoes 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon salt 1 hot chile pepper , seeded and finely chopped , or to taste 4 eggs  Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , bell peppers , and garlic ; cook and stir until the vegetables have softened and the onion has turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Combine the tomatoes , cumin , paprika , salt , and chile pepper into a bowl and mix briefly . Pour the tomato mixture into the skillet , and stir to combine . Simmer , uncovered , until the tomato juices have cooked off , about 10 minutes . Make four indentations in the tomato mixture for the eggs . Crack the eggs into the indentations . Cover the skillet and let the eggs cook until they're firm but not dry , about 5 minutes . 
1 cup dry lentils , rinsed 2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon garlic powder 3/4 cup white rice , rinsed 3/4 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3 white onions , sliced into 1/4-inch rings  Combine the lentils , 2 cups water , 1 teaspoon salt , the cumin , and garlic powder in a pot over medium heat ; bring to a simmer , reduce heat to low , and cook until the lentils begin to soften , 20 to 30 minutes . Stir the rice , 3/4 cup water , 1 teaspoon salt , and the olive oil into the lentils . Cover the pot and continue cooking until the lentils and rice are tender , about 40 minutes . Heat the cooking oil in a skillet over medium heat ; cook the onions in the oil until browned , 7 to 10 minutes . Spread the onions over the rice and lentil mixture to serve . 
6 cucumbers , diced 4 roma (plum) tomatoes , seeded and diced 5 green onions , sliced 1 red bell pepper , seeded and diced 1/3 cup chopped garlic 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/2 cup minced fresh mint leaves 1/2 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon ground black pepper  Toss the cucumbers , tomatoes , onions , bell pepper , garlic , parsley , and mint together in a bowl . Drizzle the olive oil and lemon juice over the salad and toss to coat . Season with salt and pepper to serve . 
1 cup bulgur 1 2/3 cups boiling water 1/3 cup olive oil 1/3 cup lemon juice 1 cup chopped green onions 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint 3 tomatoes , chopped 1 cucumber - peeled , seeded and chopped 1 teaspoon salt ground black pepper to taste  Combine bulgur and boiling water in a large bowl . Cover , and set aside to soak for 1 hour . Add oil , lemon juice , onions , parsley , mint , tomatoes , and cucumber ; toss to combine . Season to taste with salt and black pepper . Cover , and refrigerate for at least 1 hour . 
1 head garlic , minced 1 tablespoon sea salt 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1 cup vegetable oil 1 cup olive oil (not extra virgin)  Place the garlic , salt , lemon juice , vegetable oil , and olive oil in a quart-sized jar . Submerge an immersion blender in the mixture to the bottom of the jar . Mix with the blender resting on the bottom of the jar until the ingredients thicken , 1 to 2 minutes . Angle the mixer to pull ingredients from the sides of the jar and lift it toward the top to better combine . Continue blending until the mixture reaches a texture similar to mayonnaise . 
2 sprigs fresh rosemary 1 clove garlic , peeled 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 1/4 cup olive oil 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup cold water salt and pepper to taste  Strip rosemary leaves from stems , discard stems , and place leaves in the bowl of a food processor . Add garlic and pulse until finely chopped . Pour in the garbanzo beans ; process until evenly blended . With food processor running , slowly pour in the olive oil , scraping sides of the bowl as necessary . Pour in balsamic vinegar and process until evenly blended . Taste , and add more vinegar , 1 tablespoon at a time , as desired . Pour in the water and process to make a spreadable consistency . Add more water , 1 tablespoon at a time , if necessary . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Chill before serving . 
1 cup warm water 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 tablespoon molasses 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/2 cups soy flour cooking spray cornmeal for dusting  In a bowl mix the water , yeast , molasses , and salt . Let sit 5 to 10 minutes , then gradually mix in the whole wheat flour and soy flour . Turn out onto a floured surface , and knead until smooth . Place in a large bowl lightly coated with cooking spray . Cover with a towel , and let rise in a warm place for 1 hour . Punch down the dough , and knead for 5 to 10 minutes . Divide into 6 pieces . On a lightly floured surface , flatten each piece to about 1/8 inch thick with a rolling pin . Cover with a towel , and let rise 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Warm a baking sheet in the preheating oven for about 2 minutes , then remove from heat and sprinkle with cornmeal . Arrange the dough rounds on the prepared baking sheet , and bake 6 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove from heat and cover the bread with a moist towel to soften . When cooled , slice in half and use a knife to cut pockets in the bread . 
3/4 cup peeled , seeded , and shredded cucumber 2 1/4 cups plain yogurt cheesecloth 2 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon olive oil 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon fresh dill , chopped 1 red onion , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon ground sumac 1 pound ground beef 1 small sweet onion , minced 1 1/4 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 1/2 tablespoon ground coriander 1/2 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon Urfa biber 1 tablespoon butter , softened 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon kosher salt , or to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 hamburger buns  Place the grated cucumber on a heavy-duty paper towel or clean kitchen towel . Top with another towel , and pat dry ; set aside . Scoop the yogurt into a large square of fine cheesecloth , twist the ends to close , and squeeze to remove excess moisture . Transfer the strained yogurt to a bowl , and stir in 2 1/2 teaspoons of lemon juice . Gradually add 1 tablespoon olive oil , whisking constantly , until fully incorporated . Mix in the garlic , dill , and drained cucumbers ; cover and refrigerate . Combine the red onion , 1 teaspoon lemon juice , and sumac . Cover and refrigerate . Place the ground beef in a bowl and add the minced onion , red pepper flakes , coriander , cumin , Urfa biber , and butter . Mix gently with your hands until all of the ingredients are well distributed . Place bell pepper in blender and blend until it is mostly pureed . Pour off any excess liquid , and add the bell pepper and kosher salt to the meat ; mix well . Divide the meat into 4 equal portions and form into patties slightly larger than the buns , as the patties will shrink a bit . Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat , and lightly oil the grate . Brush the patties with 2 tablespoons olive oil and grill on high and direct heat about 5 minutes per side or until done to your liking . Place each burger on a bun ; top the burgers with cucumber and yogurt tzatziki and the lemon-soaked red onion and sumac mixture . 
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup mild extra-virgin olive oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon kosher salt ground black pepper to taste  In a medium bowl , whisk together the lemon juice , olive oil , garlic , salt and pepper . Stir just before serving . 
3 1/2 pounds lamb ribs 2 onions , chopped 1 cup dry white wine 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper  Place lamb in a 9x13-inch baking dish . Combine onions , white wine , soy sauce , lemon juice , honey , olive oil , garlic , cinnamon , salt , and pepper in a small bowl . Mix well and pour mixture all over lamb . Cover with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for 1 hour . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Roast lamb in the preheated oven until browned and tender , about 1 hour 10 minutes . 
3 cups dry garbanzo beans , soaked overnight 1 pinch baking soda (optional) 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 3/4 cup tahini paste 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice , or more to taste 1 large clove garlic , minced , or more to taste 1 teaspoon ground cumin salt to taste 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil , for drizzling  Rinse the garbanzo beans and and place in a pot . Fill with enough water to cover by at least 1 inch . Add baking soda , if using . Bring to a boil and then simmer over medium heat until the beans are very soft , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Drain the beans , reserving some of the water to use later . Reserve a small handful of the whole beans for a garnish . Transfer the rest to a blender or if you have a hand blender , a large bowl . Blend the beans until smooth , adding 1/2 cup of olive oil gradually . Add some of the reserved water if needed to help it blend . Add the tahini and blend in along with the lemon juice . Blend in the garlic , cumin and salt . Spread the hummus into a flat serving dish and garnish with the reserved beans and a drizzle of olive oil . 
1/4 cup bulgur 1/2 cup boiling water 1 cup chopped parsley 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves 5 tomatoes , diced 1 onion , finely diced 2 teaspoons olive oil 1 lemon , juiced salt to taste  Place the bulgur in a small mixing bowl . Add the boiling water , mix and cover with a towel ; Let stand for 1 hour . Drain any excess water . Combine the parsley , mint , tomatoes , onion , olive oil , lemon juice and salt . Add the bulgur ; mix well and serve . 
1 (15 ounce) can fava beans 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 large tomato , diced 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice salt and pepper to taste ground red pepper , to taste  Pour the beans into a pot and bring to a boil . Mix them well and add onion , tomato , olive oil , cumin , parsley , lemon juice , salt , pepper , and red pepper . Bring the mixture back to a boil , then reduce the heat to medium . Let the mixture cook 5 minutes . Serve warm with grilled pita . 
2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1/2 cup (packed) chopped fresh mint 1/2 cup (packed) chopped fresh parsley 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 pint grape tomatoes , halved 1 jalapeno pepper , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup olive oil 3 tablespoons lemon juice 5 tablespoons apple cider vinegar salt and ground black pepper to taste  In a salad bowl , lightly mix together the garbanzo beans , black beans , mint , parsley , onion , and grape tomatoes . Place the jalapeno pepper , garlic , olive oil , lemon juice , and apple cider vinegar into a blender , and blend until thoroughly combined . Pour the dressing over the salad , and toss to mix ; sprinkle with salt and black pepper to serve . 
1/2 cup tahini (sesame paste) 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup tamari (dark soy sauce) 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 2 cloves garlic , pressed black pepper to taste  Blend the tahini , olive oil , water , tamari , red wine vinegar , lemon juice , ginger , garlic , and black pepper together in a blender until smooth . 
1 1/2 cups dry garbanzo beans 2 tablespoons tahini 1 teaspoon sea salt 2 lemons , juiced 4 cloves garlic , crushed or to taste 1 cup filtered or spring water 1 pinch paprika  Soak the beans for 24 hours . Drain , and let sit for 2 to 3 days , until the bean's sprouts are about 1/2 inch long . Rinse the beans once or twice a day . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Remove from heat , and let stand for 1 minute . Place the sprouted beans in the hot water , and let sit for 1 minute . Drain . If you do not do this step , the hummus will be awful . Place the sprouted beans into the container of a large food processor . Add the tahini , sea salt , lemon juice , and garlic . Process until smooth , adding water if necessary . It will take 3 to 5 minutes to blend . Let sit in the food processor for 5 minutes to allow the beans to absorb as much of the water as possible . If too thick , add more water , and blend again . Taste and adjust seasonings if needed . Spoon into a serving dish , and garnish with paprika . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 pounds chicken legs , cut up 1 white onion , thinly sliced 1/2 pound walnuts , toasted and finely ground in a food processor 1 teaspoon salt 4 cups pomegranate juice 1/2 teaspoon cardamom (optional) 2 tablespoons sugar (optional)  Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Place chicken and onions in skillet , and cook 20 minutes , stirring occasionally . Mix in pureed walnuts , salt , pomegranate juice , and cardamom . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 1 1/2 hours , stirring occasionally . (If the sauce becomes too thick , stir in 1/4 cup warm water.) Mix in sugar , adjust seasoning , and simmer 30 minutes more . 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander seed 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1 pound ground turkey  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Spray baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray . In a small bowl , mix together cumin , coriander , ginger , cinnamon , pepper , and salt . In a large bowl , crumble the ground turkey ; slowly work in seasoning mixture with your hands , distributing seasoning as evenly as possible . Divide into 8 equal balls . On a flat surface , roll out each turkey ball into a tube shape . Spray a large skillet with nonstick cooking spray , and set it over medium heat . Place turkey tubes into the skillet ; cook , turning frequently , until golden brown on all sides . Transfer to a baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven about 6 minutes . 
Marinade : 2 large onions , chopped 2 garlic cloves , crushed 1/2 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 pinch curry powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 pound beef flank steak , thinly sliced Tzatziki Sauce : 8 ounces sour cream 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon chopped fresh dill 1 clove garlic , crushed 6 pita bread rounds  Place the chopped onions in a large ceramic bowl and crush with the bottom of a glass until juice is rendered and onions look translucent . Stir in 2 crushed garlic cloves , 1/2 cup olive oil , 2 tablespoons lemon juice , oregano , 1 teaspoon black pepper , turmeric , curry powder , and 1 teaspoon salt . Mix well ; add the sliced beef and toss to coat . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and marinate in the refrigerator overnight . Combine the sour cream , 2 tablespoons olive oil , 1 tablespoon lemon juice , 1/2 teaspoon salt , 1/2 teaspoon black pepper , dill , and 1 crushed clove of garlic . Mix well ; cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight . Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source . Remove the meat from the marinade mixture , brushing off extra onions . Spread the slices on a baking sheet without overlapping , and salt to taste . Broil about 3 minutes per side or until browned and crispy , turning halfway through cooking . Divide the cooked meat between the pita breads , and drizzle with tzatziki sauce to serve . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 green onions , chopped 3/4 cup diced fresh mushrooms 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans , with liquid 1 1/2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh parsley 1 1/2 tablespoons curry powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 cup dry bread crumbs 2 egg whites 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , or as needed  Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add green onions and mushrooms , and fry until tender , stirring frequently . Combine the garbanzo beans (with liquid) and garlic in the container of a blender or food processor . Blend until smooth , and transfer to a medium bowl . Stir in the mushrooms and onions . Mix in the cilantro , parsley , curry powder and cumin . Add the bread crumbs and egg whites , and mix until thoroughly blended . You can let the mixture sit in the refrigerator to blend flavors at this point , or go on to frying . Heat enough oil to cover the bottom of a large skillet over medium heat . Form the bean mixture into 4 balls , and flatten into patties . Place the burgers in the hot skillet , and fry for about 5 minutes on each side , until nicely browned . 
1 quart oil for frying , or as needed 4 large potatoes , cubed 1 teaspoon vegetable oil 2 cups chopped fresh cilantro 4 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice salt to taste  Heat the oil in a deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . When the oil is hot , add potatoes , and cook until golden brown , about 8 minutes . Drain on paper towels . Meanwhile , heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the cilantro and garlic ; cook and stir for about 5 minutes . After draining the potatoes , add them to the skillet along with the cumin , lemon juice and salt . Stir to coat the potatoes , and serve . 
1/2 cup malt vinegar 1/4 cup plain yogurt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil salt and pepper to taste 1 teaspoon mixed spice 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground cardamom 8 skinless , boneless chicken thighs 1/2 cup tahini 1/4 cup plain yogurt 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley salt and pepper to taste 4 medium tomatoes , thinly sliced 1/2 cup sliced onion 4 cups shredded lettuce 8 pita bread rounds  In a glass baking dish , mix together the malt vinegar , 1/4 cup yogurt , vegetable oil , mixed spice , cardamom , salt and pepper . Place the chicken thighs into the mixture and turn to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours or overnight . Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a small bowl , mix together the tahini , 1/4 cup yogurt , garlic , lemon juice , olive oil , and parsley . Season with salt and pepper , taste , and adjust flavors if desired . Cover and refrigerate . Cover the chicken and bake in the marinade for 30 minutes , turning once . Uncover , and cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes , or until chicken is browned and cooked through . Remove from the dish , and cut into slices . Place sliced chicken , tomato , onion , and lettuce onto pita breads . Roll up , and top with the tahini sauce . 
2 1/4 cups water 1 cup bulgur wheat 2 tomatoes , seeded and finely chopped 2 green onions , sliced into thin slivers 3/4 cup coarsely chopped fresh cilantro 2 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 2 lemons , juiced 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon freshly cracked pepper salt to taste  Bring water to a boil in a saucepan , turn off the heat , and stir in the bulgur wheat . Cover and let sit for 30 minutes to absorb water . Strain off any liquid left unabsorbed , if necessary . Place the bulgur wheat in a large salad bowl , and lightly toss with the tomatoes , green onions , cilantro , garlic , lemon juice , olive oil , cumin , pepper , and salt until thoroughly combined . Refrigerate the salad for at least 3 hours to blend the flavors ; serve cold . 
1 (32 ounce) container plain yogurt 2 cucumbers 1 medium head garlic 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon chopped fresh dill weed salt and pepper to taste  Place the yogurt in a large square of double cheesecloth . Tie the cheesecloth at the top and let any excess liquid drain for about 4 hours . Peel cucumbers ; remove seeds with a spoon . Shred the cucumbers , then squeeze to drain excess liquid . Peel and mince garlic . In a medium-sized bowl , whisk together the olive oil , lemon juice , dill , salt and pepper . Add yogurt , cucumbers and garlic and stir until evenly combined . Refrigerate until ready to use . 
3 cups water 1 1/2 cups dry couscous 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 small white onion , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup marinated artichoke hearts , liquid reserved 2 teaspoons capers , liquid reserved 12 small green olives 1 (14.5 ounce) can chopped stewed tomatoes , drained 2 tablespoons white wine (optional) 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 cup water 2 teaspoons sumac powder 1 1/2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon cumin 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root ground black pepper to taste 1 pound tilapia fillets , cut into chunks  In a medium saucepan , bring 3 cups water to a boil , and stir in the couscous . Remove from heat , cover , and let sit 5 minutes . Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat , and saute the onion and green pepper about 5 minutes , until tender . Mix in the garlic , and continue to cook and stir about 2 minutes . Mix in the artichoke hearts with reserved liquid , capers with reserved liquid , and olives . Stir in the tomatoes , wine , lemon juice , and 1 cup water (or enough to attain desired thickness) . Season with sumac powder , red pepper , basil , cumin , ginger , and pepper . Bring the mixture to a boil , and mix in the fish chunks . Reduce heat , and simmer 10 minutes , or until the fish is easily flaked with a fork . Serve over couscous . 
2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 1/2 cup roasted tahini 1/4 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon grated lemon zest , minced 2 cloves garlic 1/4 cup packed flat leaf parsley 1/4 cup chopped green onions salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  Place garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , lemon zest , garlic , parsley , and green onion in the bowl of a food processor . Blend until smooth , adding water if the mixture is too thick . Season to taste with salt and pepper . 
1 (16 ounce) package dried penne pasta 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 small onion , diced 1 green bell pepper , diced 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1/2 cup frozen peas 1 bunch cilantro 3 sprigs fresh dill weed , chopped 1 (6 ounce) can Italian-flavored tomato paste 1/2 cup water salt and pepper to taste 5 tablespoons butter 1 cube chicken bouillon 5 tablespoons all-purpose flour 3 cups milk pepper to taste 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese  Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil , cook the penne pasta 10 to 12 minutes , until al dente , and drain . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat , and saute the onion , green bell pepper , and garlic until tender . Stir in the chicken , and cook until almost done . Mix in the peas , cilantro , dill , tomato paste , and enough water to make a thick sauce . Continue to cook and stir until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear , and all the ingredients are heated through . Season with salt and pepper to taste . To prepare the bechamel sauce , melt the butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Dissolve the chicken bouillon cube in the melted butter . Stirring constantly , blend in the flour until smooth . Mix in the milk , season with pepper , and continue to cook and stir until the sauce is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon . In a bowl , mix the cooked pasta with 1/2 the bechamel sauce . Place 1/2 the pasta in a baking dish , layer with 1/2 the chicken mixture , and 1/2 the mozzarella cheese . Layer with the remaining pasta , remaining chicken mixture , and remaining bechamel sauce . Top with remaining mozzarella cheese . Bake 30 minutes in the preheated oven , or until bubbly . 
1 (16 ounce) garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , drained and rinsed 1/2 cup basil leaves 1 clove garlic 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/2 teaspoon balsamic vinegar 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce salt and ground black pepper to taste  Combine the garbanzo beans , basil , and garlic in a food processor ; pulse several times . Use a spatula to push mixture from sides of processor bowl . Pulse the mixture again while drizzling in the olive oil . Add the vinegar and soy sauce ; pulse until combined . Season with salt and pepper . 
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon salt 1 1/2 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1/2 cup Greek-style yogurt 4 cups all-purpose flour  Dissolve the yeast , sugar , and salt in the warm water . Add the water and yogurt to the flour and mix well . The dough will be soft but not sticky . Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and shape it into a ball . Cover the dough with a damp cloth and allow it to rise at room temperature for 3 hours . Cut the dough into four portions . Shape the dough into rounds and flatten each round as though you're making pizza dough . Cover the rounds with a damp cloth and let the dough rest for 15 minutes . Heat a cast iron skillet or griddle over medium-high heat . Place one dough round in the skillet and bake until brown spots appear on the bottom , about 1 minute . Flip the bread and bake for an additional minute . Remove the bread and wrap it in a clean kitchen towel to keep warm . Repeat with the remaining dough rounds . Store any leftover flatbreads in an airtight container . 
4 cloves garlic , peeled 1/4 cup vegetable oil , or as needed 1 pinch salt 1 lemon , juiced  Crush garlic in a mortar and pestle with a generous pinch of salt . Mix in oil a teaspoon at a time until the mixture will absorb no more oil . Stir in the lemon juice . serve at room temperature with Lebanese breads , hummus or Tabbouleh . 
3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1/2 inch strips 2 tablespoons ketchup 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons white wine vinegar 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon mustard powder 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder , or to taste 4 pita breads , cut in half 2 cups mixed salad greens 1 cup plain yogurt  Place the chicken strips side by side in a broiling pan . In a cup or small bowl , stir together the ketchup , olive oil , white wine vinegar , oregano , mustard powder and curry powder . Pour over the chicken . Allow the chicken to marinate while you preheat the oven's broiler . Broil uncovered for 15 minutes with the meat about 6 inches from the heat . Just until the chicken is cooked through , but not browned . If left too long , it will turn stringy and dry . Place hot chicken into pita pockets and spoon some of the juices from the pan over it . Top with salad greens and plain yogurt . 
1 cup whole milk 1 cup unsalted butter 1 cup margarine 1 cup white sugar 1/2 cup lukewarm water 2 teaspoons white sugar 2 (.25 ounce) envelopes active dry yeast 5 eggs 6 cups all-purpose flour , or as needed 1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 1/2 tablespoons ground mahleb 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 egg , beaten 1 tablespoon sesame seeds  In a saucepan over medium heat , combine the milk , butter and margarine . Heat until butter and margarine are melted , but do not let it boil . Stir in 1 cup of sugar until dissolved , then set aside to cool to lukewarm . Meanwhile , in a small bowl , dissolve 2 teaspoons of sugar in warm water . Sprinkle the yeast over the surface , and let stand until frothy , about 10 minutes . Crack the eggs into a large bowl , and stir a little to break up the yolks . Slowly pour in the heated milk mixture while whisking constantly , so as to temper the eggs and not cook them . Add the yeast mixture , and stir just until blended . In a large bowl , combine the flour , baking powder , mahleb , and salt . Make a well in the center , and pour in the wet mixture . Stir until it forms a sticky dough . Pour onto a floured surface , and knead in additional flour as needed to make a more substantial dough . Knead for about 10 minutes . Place in an oiled bowl , and set in a warm place to rise for about 2 hours , or until doubled in size . When the dough has doubled , punch down again , and let rise until doubled . It will only take about half as long this time . Separate the dough into 5 even portions , then separate each of those into thirds . Roll each of those into ropes about 12 inches long . Braid sets of three ropes together , pinching the ends to seal , and tucking them under for a better presentation . Place the loaves onto baking sheets lined with parchment paper . Loaves should be spaced 4 inches apart . Set in a warm place to rise until your finger leaves an impression behind when you poke the loaf gently . Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Brush the loaves with beaten egg , and sprinkle with sesame seeds . Bake for 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until nicely golden brown all over . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 yellow onion , diced 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 (4 inch) cinnamon stick salt and pepper to taste 1 pound butternut squash - peeled , seeded , and cut into 2-inch cubes 4 large red potatoes , cut into 2-inch cubes 2 cups vegetable broth 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 (14.5 ounce) can canned diced tomatoes with their juice 1 cup pitted , brine-cured green olives 1/2 teaspoon lemon zest 1 3/4 cups water 1 (10 ounce) box uncooked couscous 6 tablespoons plain yogurt 6 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  Heat olive oil in a large covered saucepan or Dutch oven over medium heat , until oil is hot but not smoking . Drop in the onion , garlic , cumin , cinnamon stick , and salt and pepper . Cook and stir for 5 minutes , until onion is tender and translucent . Stir in the butternut squash and potato cubes , broth , garbanzo beans , and tomatoes , and bring the mixture to a boil . Reduce heat , cover the pot , and simmer about 20 minutes , stirring occasionally , until the squash and potatoes are tender . Remove the stew from heat , and stir in the olives and lemon zest . In a large saucepan , bring 1 3/4 cup water to a boil . Stir in couscous . Cover and remove from the heat ; let stand for 5 minutes . Fluff with a fork ; cool . Serve stew over cooked couscous . Garnish each serving with a dollop of yogurt and a sprinkle of cilantro leaves . 
1/2 cup plain yogurt 1/4 cup water 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/2 cup chopped onion 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves 3/4 teaspoon ground mace 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 5 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 1/4-inch-thick strips  Place the yogurt , water , lemon juice , vinegar , olive oil , onion , and garlic into a large mixing bowl . Whisk in the salt , black pepper , cumin , nutmeg , clove , mace , and cayenne pepper until evenly blended . Mix in the lamb strips to coat . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and marinate in the refrigerator 12 to 24 hours (the longer the better) . Heat a large skillet over high heat . Cook the lamb strips in a single layer in batches until the fat melts and the meat has browned and is no longer pink on the inside , about 5 minutes , turning occasionally . 
3 cloves garlic 2 teaspoons coarse salt 1 (19 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 3 tablespoons tahini (sesame-seed paste) 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 tablespoon honey 2 tablespoons water , or as needed 1/4 cup olive oil , divided 6 pita bread rounds salt to taste 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary  Mash garlic with the salt in a small bowl . Place into a blender or food processor along with the garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , honey , and enough water to cover the beans . Process until smooth . Spoon into a serving dish , and drizzle 2 tablespoons of olive oil over the top . Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Brush pita breads with remaining olive oil , and cut into wedges . Season with salt and fresh rosemary . Bake for 5 minutes in the preheated oven . Cool , and serve with hummus . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 onion , diced 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup diced tomatoes , drained 5 cups chicken stock 1/2 cup red lentils 1/4 cup fine bulgur 1/4 cup rice 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 teaspoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional) 1 tablespoon dried mint salt and ground black pepper to taste  Heat the olive oil in a large pot over high heat . Cook and stir the onion in the hot oil until it begins to soften , about 2 minutes . Stir the garlic into the onion and cook another 2 minutes . Add the diced tomatoes to the onion mixture ; continue to cook and stir another 10 minutes . Pour in the chicken stock , red lentils , bulgur , rice , tomato paste , paprika , cayenne pepper , and mint to the tomato mixture ; season with salt and black pepper . Bring the soup to a boil , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook at a simmer until the the lentils and rice are cooked through , about 30 minutes . Pour the soup into a blender to no more than half full . Firmly hold the lid in place and carefully start the blender , using a few quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree . Puree in batches until smooth ; pour into your serving dish . Alternately , you can use a stick blender and puree the soup in cooking pot . 
1 (32 ounce) container plain yogurt 3 English cucumbers , peeled and cubed 1 clove garlic , minced 1 shallot , finely chopped 5 tablespoons dried dill weed 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper  In a medium bowl , stir together the yogurt , cucumbers , garlic , and shallot . Season with dill , salt and pepper . Refrigerate for at least 1 hour to blend flavors . 
1 pound dry garbanzo beans 1 onion , quartered 1 potato , peeled and quartered 4 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 cup cilantro leaves , chopped 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking soda 2 cups canola oil  Rinse the garbanzo beans under cold water and discard any bad ones . Place in a large pot , and cover with water . Let soak 24 hours , and rinse again . Place the garbanzo beans , onion , and potato in the bowl of a food processor . Cover , and process until finely chopped . Leaving about 1 cup of the garbanzo bean mixture in the food processor bowl , pour the rest into a mixing bowl . Add the garlic , cilantro , coriander , cumin , salt , pepper , and cayenne pepper to the garbanzo bean mixture in the food processor bowl ; process on low to blend thoroughly . Return the reserved garbanzo bean mixture to the food processor bowl , and add the lemon juice , olive oil , and flour ; process on low into a coarse meal . Cover , and refrigerate 2 hours . Stir the baking soda into the garbanzo bean mixture until evenly blended . Using damp hands , form the mixture into 1 1/2 inch diameter balls . Pour the canola oil into a wok 1 to 2 inches deep , and heat over medium-high heat . Cook the falafel balls , turning so all sides are evenly browned , about 5 minutes . Remove falafel from oil , and drain on paper towels . Repeat to cook remaining falafel balls . 
1 cup uncooked white rice 2 pounds ground lamb 2 (16 ounce) jars grape leaves , drained and rinsed 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon ground allspice 6 cloves garlic , sliced 1 cup lemon juice 2 kalamata olives (optional)  Soak rice in cold water , and drain . In a large bowl , mix together the ground lamb , rice , allspice , salt and pepper until well blended . Place about 1 tablespoon of the meat mixture onto the center of each leaf . Fold the leaf over once , turn in the edges on each side , and then roll the leaf closed . Stack the leaf-rolls in a large pot , covering each layer with slices of garlic . Add just enough water to cover the rolls , then pour in the lemon juice . Add the olives to the pot for flavoring , if desired . Place a plate on top of the rolls to keep them under water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat , cover and simmer for 1 hour and 15 minutes . Taste the rice for doneness . Grape leaves taste even better after sitting for several hours . Serve and enjoy . 
1 cup plain yogurt 1 teaspoon ginger garlic paste 2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon ground black cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 teaspoons salt 2 pounds round steak , cut into pieces 3/4 cup vegetable oil 1 medium onion , thinly sliced 1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 bunch fresh cilantro , for garnish 4 fresh green chilies , for garnish  In a medium bowl , combine yogurt , ginger garlic paste , pepper flakes , cumin , cloves , turmeric and salt . Mix in beef until evenly coated . Set aside for 15 minutes . Heat oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Fry onion until golden brown . Remove 1 tablespoon of onion , and set aside for garnish . Reduce heat to low . Place meat in skillet , cover , and cook until tender , about 25 minutes . Check every 10 minutes , and add water if necessary . Pour in lemon juice , and simmer for 10 minutes . Garnish with cilantro , green chiles , and reserved fried onion . 
2 cups semolina flour 1/3 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup white sugar 1 cup sweetened flaked coconut 1/4 cup butter , melted 1 cup plain yogurt 1/4 cup milk , or as needed 1/4 cup whole almonds 1 cup water 1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease an 8 inch square baking dish . In a large bowl , mix together the semolina flour , baking powder , 1 cup sugar , coconut and butter . Add the yogurt and milk ; mix until moistened but not runny or liquid . If you see that it is too dry , add more milk . Spread into a greased 8 inch square baking dish , smoothing the top as much as possible . Decorate the top with whole almonds . Bake for 40 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown . While the basboosa is baking , combine the water , 1 cup of sugar and lemon juice in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil , and cook for at least 5 minutes . When the basboosa has finished baking , pour the syrup over it as evenly as possible . Place it back in the oven for about 5 minutes , or until the syrup has been fully absorbed . Let rest for about 20 minutes before cutting into pieces and serving . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 2 inch pieces 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1 large onion , chopped 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes 3 fresh peaches - peeled , pitted , and sliced 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 cup chopped dried apricots 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 cups chicken broth 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1/3 cup slivered almonds , toasted  Place chicken in the bottom of a slow cooker . Add the garlic , onion , tomatoes , peaches , garbanzo beans , dried apricots , cumin , ginger , cinnamon , coriander , and cayenne pepper . Pour in the chicken broth . Cook on Low for 5 hours . Remove the chicken and keep warm . Mix the cornstarch and water in a small bowl . Stir the cornstarch mixture into the slow cooker . Cook on High until the sauce has thickened , about 15 minutes . Return the chicken to the slow cooker and heat through . Top with fresh cilantro and almonds before serving . 
1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , drained 3 tablespoons tahini 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 1/4 cup water 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin (optional) 1 pinch paprika 1 sprig fresh parsley , chopped  Place garbanzo beans , tahini , olive oil , lemon juice , water , garlic , and cumin into a food processor and process until smooth , about 1 minute . Transfer to a bowl and sprinkle top of hummus with paprika and fresh parsley . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large yellow onion , diced 2 stalks celery with leaves , diced 2 carrots , diced 1 1/2 teaspoons minced garlic 6 cups water 2 cups French green lentils 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon salt , or more to taste 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 cup butter (optional) 1 cup all-purpose flour (optional) 1 lemon , cut into wedges 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley freshly ground black pepper  Heat olive oil in a large heavy-bottomed pot over medium heat . Cook and stir onion , celery , and carrots until slightly tender , about 5 minutes . Add garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 30 seconds . Add water , lentils , 2 tablespoons fresh parsley , salt , coriander , cumin , black pepper , and cayenne pepper ; stir to incorporate . Cover and simmer until lentils are tender , stirring occasionally , 1 1/2 hours . Whisk butter and flour together in a small saucepan over medium-low heat ; stir constantly until thickened and paste-like , about 10 minutes . Reduce heat to low , stirring every 2 to 3 minutes , until light brown , about 20 more minutes . Whisk flour paste into finished soup , a spoonful at a time , until smooth and creamy . Serve with lemon wedges , 2 tablespoons parsley , and a sprinkle of freshly ground pepper . 
1 (14 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained , liquid reserved 2 tablespoons tahini (sesame seed paste) 1 lemon , juiced 2 cloves garlic , minced 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup bottled roasted red bell peppers  Place the garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , garlic , salt , and red peppers in the bowl of a food processor . Add 2 tablespoons of the reserved juice from the garbanzo beans . Pulse until the mixture is smooth , scraping the sides and blade to mix completely . Cover , and refrigerate until ready to use . 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2/3 cup water 1 egg white 2 tablespoons butter , melted 2 egg whites , beaten 2 tablespoons sesame seeds  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a large bowl , stir together , flour , sugar and salt . Add water , 1 egg white and melted butter ; mix well to make a stiff dough . Knead until dough is smooth , about 5 minutes . Divide dough into 10 balls . Roll each ball on lightly floured surface until paper thin . Place on ungreased baking sheet . Brush with egg white and sprinkle with sesame seeds . Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes , until browned . 
1 (8 ounce) container plain low-fat yogurt 1 onion , chopped 1/2 teaspoon dried mint 2 pounds beef top sirloin , cut into large cubes  In a large bowl , mix the yogurt , onion , and mint . Place the beef cubes in the mixture . Cover , and marinate at least 6 hours in the refrigerator . Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat . Place the marinated beef cubes on skewers , and grill , turning occasionally , 15 minutes , or to desired doneness . 
8 ounces chickpeas 1 large onion , chopped 1 pound beets 1/2 cup tahini 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1/4 cup olive oil  In a large bowl , cover chickpeas with cold water and soak overnight . Drain chickpeas and place in a large heavy saucepan ; add onion , cover with water and bring to a boil over medium heat . Cook for 1 hour , or until chickpeas are very soft . Drain , reserving 1 cup of cooking liquid . Allow to cool . Meanwhile , in a large saucepan cover beets with water and bring to a boil over medium heat . Cook until tender ; drain and allow beets to cool before removing the skins and chopping . Puree beets in a food processor ; add the chickpeas and onions , tahini , garlic , lemon juice and cumin . Process until smooth . Slowly , while the machine is running , pour in the reserved cooking liquid and olive oil . Continue to process until mixture is thoroughly combined . Drizzle with a little olive oil . 
1 cup bulgur wheat , uncooked 1 1/2 cups boiling water 2 cups chopped fresh parsley 1 cup chopped baby spinach 1 tomato , diced 1/2 yellow bell pepper , diced 1 small onion , finely diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans , drained and rinsed 1/4 cup olive oil 1 lemon , juiced 1 1/2 teaspoons sea salt freshly ground black pepper to taste  Place the bulgur wheat in a large bowl , stir the boiling water into it , cover , and let stand until the water is absorbed and the wheat is fluffy , about 30 minutes . In a large salad bowl , lightly stir together the parsley , spinach , tomato , yellow bell pepper , onion , garlic , cannellini beans , olive oil , lemon juice , sea salt , and black pepper . Add the bulgur , lightly stir to thoroughly combine the salad , and refrigerate until chilled , about 1 hour . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 yellow onion , chopped 4 cups water 1 cup lentils 1/4 cup bulgur 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 lemon , quartered 2 green onions , chopped 1 cup plain yogurt  Heat the oil in a skillet over high heat ; cook and stir the onion in the oil until caramelized , 5 to 7 minutes ; set aside . Bring water to a boil in a pan over medium heat ; add the lentils . Return mixture to a boil , reduce heat to low ; simmer until the lentils get soupy , about 15 minutes . Stir in the bulgur , salt , and pepper ; simmer until water is completely absorbed , about 10 minutes ; stir in the caramelized onions . Remove from heat , cover , and allow to rest for 3 to 5 minutes . Divide lentils into 4 even portions ; squeeze one lime wedge over each portion and top with green onions and yogurt . 
2/3 cup medium coarse bulgur 1 cup fresh mint leaves 1 large onion , chopped 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground allspice 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 pounds lean ground lamb 3 tablespoons olive oil  Place bulgur in a microwave-safe bowl and cover with water just to the top of the bulgur . Place in the microwave and cook on High 1 to 2 minutes until bulgur is swollen and the water is absorbed . Toss briefly and allow to stand until cool . Place the mint leaves in the bowl of a food processor . Process , gradually adding onion through the feed tube , until both mint and onion are finely chopped . Stir the mint-onion mixture into the bulgur , with the cumin , allspice , salt , and pepper . Stir the bulgur mixture into the ground lamb and mix thoroughly . Using damp hands , shape the lamb mixture into small , palm-sized patties . Place the olive oil in a skillet and heat over medium heat . Add the kibbeh patties and cook until outside is golden brown and center is cooked through , turning once , about 6 minutes on each side . 
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup fine dry bread crumbs 1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts 4 cloves garlic , mashed into a paste 3 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons pomegranate molasses 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes  In the container of a food processor or blender , combine the olive oil , bread crumbs , walnuts , garlic , lemon juice , pomegranate molasses , cumin and red pepper flakes . Process until smooth . Serve with pita triangles . 
1 pound ground beef 1 large onion , chopped 1 jalapeno pepper , finely chopped 2 tablespoons curry powder 5 cups chicken broth 1 cup tomato sauce 1 pound fresh green beans , cut into 1 inch pieces 3 cups uncooked basmati rice , rinsed and drained 3 tablespoons vegetable oil  Heat a large nonstick pan (one that has a lid) over medium-high heat . Cook and stir beef until browned and crumbly , 5 to 7 minutes ; drain and discard grease . Stir in onion and jalapeno , and cook until tender . Season with curry powder ; stir in chicken broth and tomato sauce . Bring to a boil , and stir in green beans . Reduce heat to medium and simmer until beans are tender , about 15 minutes . Stir in rice , and cover the pan . Cook on medium heat for 10 to 15 minutes , or until much of the liquid is absorbed . (Be careful not to overcook rice at this point or the dish will be mushy ; the rice should be firm.) Transfer everything in the pan to a bowl or heatproof container , and return pot to the stove . Heat the oil in the nonstick pan over medium heat . Carefully dump the cooked rice mixture back into the pan . Wrap a clean dish towel around the inside of the pot's lid (the ends of the dish towel will be folded over the edges on top of the lid,) and put the lid on the pot . Cook over medium-low heat for 35 minutes , without uncovering or stirring . Remove lid and place a tray on top of the pot , then carefully flip it over . The rice will hold the shape of the pot and have a nice crust on top called 'tah digh.' 
2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 1/2 (12 ounce) jar roasted red bell peppers , drained 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 (6 ounce) jar mushrooms , drained 1 onion , diced 1 tablespoon minced garlic salt and pepper to taste 1 (16 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium casserole dish . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet over medium heat , and cook the chicken until juices run clear . Puree the roasted red peppers in a blender or food processor until smooth . In the prepared casserole dish , mix the cooked chicken , roasted red peppers , tomatoes , mushrooms , onion , and garlic . Season with salt and pepper . Drizzle with remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil , and top with mozzarella cheese . Bake 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until cheese is melted and bubbly . 
Marinade 1 cup plain yogurt 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon hot pepper sauce 1 tablespoon white vinegar 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon finely minced onion 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon ground mace 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , thinly sliced Condiments 8 (6-inch) pita breads , warmed 1/2 cup plain yogurt (optional) 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 large tomato , diced 1 cucumber , thinly sliced 1 cup Ranch dressing  To make the marinade , stir together 1 cup yogurt , lemon juice , hot pepper sauce , and vinegar . Stir in the garlic , onion , pepper , red pepper flakes , mace , and salt . Marinate the chicken overnight in the refrigerator . Place oven rack in the top position , and turn oven on to Broil . To cook , drain the marinade from the meat , and place on a slotted broiler pan . Broil on top rack of preheated oven , turning after a few minutes , until cooked through , about 5 minutes . To assemble the schwarma , spread each pita with a tablespoon of plain yogurt , and layer with onion , tomato , and cucumber . Pile on the broiled chicken , and dress with Ranch dressing . 
1/4 cup butter 2 onions , finely chopped 1 teaspoon paprika 1 cup red lentils 1/2 cup fine bulgur 2 tablespoons tomato paste 8 cups vegetable stock 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon dried mint leaves 4 slices lemon 1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh mint  Melt the butter in a large saucepan over low heat . Cook the onions in the hot butter until they are golden brown , about 15 minutes . Stir the paprika , lentils , and bulgur into the onions and coat with the butter . Add the tomato paste , vegetable stock , and cayenne pepper ; bring to a boil and cook until soft and creamy , about 1 hour . Crumble the dried mint leaves into the soup ; stir the soup and remove from heat . Ladle into bowls and garnish with lemon slices and fresh mint to serve . 
Kabsa Spice Mix : 1/2 teaspoon saffron 1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1/2 teaspoon dried whole lime powder 1/4 cup butter 1 onion , finely chopped 6 cloves garlic , minced 1 (3 pound) whole chicken , cut into 8 pieces 1/4 cup tomato puree 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , undrained 3 carrots , peeled and grated 2 whole cloves 1 pinch ground nutmeg 1 pinch ground cumin 1 pinch ground coriander salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 3 1/4 cups hot water 1 cube chicken bouillon 2 1/4 cups unrinsed basmati rice 1/4 cup raisins 1/4 cup toasted slivered almonds  Mix together the saffron , cardamom , cinnamon , allspice , white pepper , and lime powder in a small bowl , and set the spice mix aside . Melt the butter in a large stock pot or Dutch oven over medium heat . Stir in the garlic and onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the chicken pieces and brown them over medium-high heat until lightly browned , about 10 minutes . Mix in the tomato puree . Stir in the canned tomatoes with their juice , the grated carrots , whole cloves , nutmeg , cumin , coriander , salt , black pepper , and the Kabsa spice mix . Cook for about 3 minutes ; pour in the water , and add the chicken bouillon cube . Bring the sauce to a boil , then reduce the heat to simmer and cover the pot . Simmer until chicken is no longer pink and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes . Gently stir in the rice . Cover the pot and simmer until rice is tender and almost dry , about 25 minutes ; add the raisins and a little more hot water , if necessary . Cover and cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes or until the rice grains are separate . Transfer the rice to a large serving platter and arrange the chicken pieces on top . Sprinkle the toasted slivered almonds over the dish . 
2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 4 tablespoons lemon juice 6 cloves garlic , peeled and crushed 3 tablespoons tahini 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper  Place garbanzo beans in a food processor and blend into a spreadable paste . Mix in lemon juice , garlic , tahini and crushed red pepper . Blend until smooth , using more lemon juice if consistency is too thick . 
3/4 cup plain yogurt 1 teaspoon chopped fresh mint leaves 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 pound ground beef 1 1/2 cups chopped onion 1 cup water 1 carrot , grated 3/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 26 wonton wrappers 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons water 1/2 cup dried yellow split peas 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1 cube chicken bouillon 1 1/2 cups water  In a small bowl , stir together yogurt , mint , and garlic . Refrigerate . In a large skillet over medium heat , cook ground beef and onions until meat is browned , stirring occasionally to crumble ; drain fat . Stir in 1 cup water , carrot , salt , black pepper , 1 1/2 teaspoons coriander , and 1/2 teaspoon cumin ; simmer uncovered for 30 minutes or until water evaporates . Lay out wonton wrappers on aluminum foil . Mound two large spoonfuls of beef mixture in the center of one wrapper . Dip a finger in water and trace it around all four edges . Lay a second wonton wrapper on top of the first , and press on all edges to seal . Roll up the edges to create a round , hat-shaped ravioli . Repeat , making 13 ravioli . Place ravioli in steamer and steam 40 minutes . Meanwhile , mix together the yellow split peas , 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes , 1 teaspoon coriander , 1/4 teaspoon cumin , chicken bouillon , and 1 1/2 cups of water in a saucepan . Bring to a boil , then simmer over medium-low heat for about 45 minutes , or until it reaches a thick slurry-like consistency . Meanwhile , in the large skillet , mix remaining beef mixture with 2 tablespoons water , tomato paste , and 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes . Simmer over low heat until liquid has evaporated , about 10 minutes . To serve , spread yogurt on a serving plate . Top with ravioli , and top again with split pea mixture . Finally , top with tomato and beef mixture . Serve immediately . 
1 (16 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1/4 cup panko bread crumbs , or as needed 1/4 cup chopped onion 1/4 cup olive oil 1 egg 2 tablespoons dried parsley 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 tablespoon garlic powder 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/2 tablespoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup panko bread crumbs , or as needed 1 cup olive oil for frying , or as needed  Place garbanzo beans , 1/4 cup panko bread crumbs , onion , 1/4 cup olive oil , egg , parsley , curry powder , garlic powder , lemon juice , and black pepper in a food processor or blender . Puree until coarse crumbles form . Blend more panko crumbs into mixture if it is too moist . Roll mixture into balls about the size of a golf ball ; place on a plate . Press into patties and coat in panko bread crumbs . Heat about 1-inch olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Pan-fry patties until crispy , about 3 minutes on each side . 
1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half 1/2 cup couscous 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 1 pinch salt 1 tablespoon salted butter 1/4 cup capers , drained 3 dates , pitted and chopped 1/4 cup mascarpone cheese 1/4 cup heavy cream salt and ground black pepper to taste (optional) 1 date , pitted and chopped 1/4 cucumber , diced 1/2 tomato , diced 1 teaspoon lemon juice (optional)  Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat , and lightly oil the grate . Grill the chicken breast until the meat is no longer pink inside and shows well-defined grill marks , 5 to 8 minutes per side . Cut the chicken breast in half , and set aside . Bring the water , unsalted butter , and a pinch of salt to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Remove from the heat , and stir in the couscous . Cover and let stand for 10 minutes , then fluff with a fork . Melt the salted butter in a skillet over medium heat , and gently stir in the capers and 3 dates . Stir a few times to heat the capers and dates , then stir in the mascarpone cheese and cream , stirring until the cheese and cream have melted together . Allow the mixture to simmer for about 3 minutes to reduce slightly , then season to taste with salt and pepper . Place the couscous on a serving platter , and sprinkle with a chopped date . Arrange the 2 pieces of chicken breast onto the couscous , and cover with the mascarpone sauce . Sprinkle the dish with diced cucumber and tomato , and drizzle lemon juice over the top to serve . 
4 bulbs garlic , cloves separated and peeled 1 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 3 cups olive oil  In the container of a blender , combine the garlic cloves , lemon juice and salt . Blend at medium speed until smooth . Continue blending while pouring olive oil into the blender in a thin stream . The mixture should become thick and white like salad dressing . Store refrigerated in a glass container . 
2 cups canned garbanzo beans , drained 1/3 cup tahini 1/4 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 2 cloves garlic , halved 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 pinch paprika 1 teaspoon minced fresh parsley  Place the garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , salt and garlic in a blender or food processor . Blend until smooth . Transfer mixture to a serving bowl . Drizzle olive oil over the garbanzo bean mixture . Sprinkle with paprika and parsley . 
1 cup dry garbanzo beans 1/2 yellow onion , diced 1/2 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 4 cloves minced garlic 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour , or more as needed 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , or to taste 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon baking soda 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper oil for frying  Place garbanzo beans into a large container and cover with several inches of cool water ; let stand 12 to 24 hours . Drain . Blend garbanzo beans , onion , parsley , garlic , flour , lemon juice , salt , cumin , coriander , baking soda , and cayenne pepper together in a food processor , scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary , until mixture is finely ground and holds together when pressed . Transfer garbanzo mixture to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap , and refrigerate until flavors blend , 1 to 2 hours . Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Divide dough into 12 portions and roll each with moistened hands into a ball . Working in batches , cook falafel balls in hot oil until browned and crispy , about 5 minutes . Transfer to a wire rack to drain . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , finely chopped 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 cup finely ground walnuts 1 (10 fluid ounce) bottle pomegranate paste or syrup  Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir the onion until tender , and quickly brown the chicken on all sides . Remove from skillet , and set aside . Place the ground walnuts in the remaining oil in the skillet . Over medium heat , cook and stir 5 to 10 minutes , until lightly browned . Return the onion and chicken to the skillet with the walnuts , and blend in the pomegranate paste . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes , stirring occasionally , until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear . 
3 1/4 pounds boneless top round steak , sliced very thin 1/2 cup red wine vinegar 1/2 cup olive oil 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon allspice 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon cardamom 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper salt , to taste 2 large tomatoes , coarsely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced Parsley Sauce 1 bunch finely chopped fresh parsley 1 large sweet onion , finely chopped 1/3 cup olive oil 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 3 large tomatoes , coarsely chopped Tahini Sauce 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup tahini (sesame-seed paste) 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup water salt , to taste 7 (6 inch) pita bread rounds  Place the sliced beef into a flat , ovenproof dish . Stir the red wine vinegar , 1/2 cup olive oil , lemon juice , allspice , cinnamon , cardamom , black pepper , salt , tomatoes and garlic together in a bowl until well blended . Pour over the beef , turning slices to coat evenly . Cover , and refrigerate 4 hours . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Remove the cover from the dish with the beef , and cook in preheated oven until the meat is no longer pink , about 50 minutes . Cool slightly . Meanwhile , make the parsley sauce by mixing the parsley , sweet onion , and 1/2 cup olive oil together in a bowl . Place the tomatoes in a bowl , and set aside until needed . Make the tahini sauce by mixing the garlic , tahini , lemon juice , and water together in a bowl . Season to taste with salt . To serve , place the pita bread rounds on serving plates . Spoon some of the meat mixture down the center of each pita round . Top with the parsley mix , tomatoes , and tahini sauce . Roll up the sides of the pita bread around the filling , and serve . 
2 pounds beef tenderloin 1 onion , chopped 1 tablespoon salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 1/8 cup fresh lime juice  Cut beef into cubes 1x1/2 inch . Add to a medium mixing bowl along with the onion , salt , black pepper , and lime juice . Mix well , cover , and refrigerate overnight . Preheat grill for high heat . Thread beef on skewers , 6 to 8 pieces per skewer . Lightly oil grate , and place kebobs on grill . Cook for 3 to 4 minutes per side , 12 to 16 minutes in all . 
3 tablespoons clarified butter , divided 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1/2 inch pieces 3 tablespoons garam masala  Melt clarified butter in a large skillet over medium high heat . Sprinkle one side of chicken pieces with garam masala and place seasoned side down in hot butter . Sprinkle top of chicken pieces with more garam masala and saute for 5 minutes . Turn chicken pieces , adding more butter as needed , and saute for 5 to 10 minutes more , or until chicken is cooked through and no longer pink inside . 
1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , drained and mashed with fork 3/4 cup panko bread crumbs 1 small unpeeled red potato , shredded 1/4 cup diced red onion 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 egg 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup panko bread crumbs 1 cup canola oil for frying 1 cup plain yogurt 1/3 cup finely chopped fresh dill 1/2 lemon , juiced 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper  Combine chickpeas , 3/4 cup panko bread crumbs , red potato , red onion , garlic , egg , 1 tablespoon olive oil , cilantro , 1 teaspoon lemon juice , cumin , salt , and black pepper in a large bowl . Form mixture into 2-inch patties . Place 1/4 cup panko crumbs in a shallow bowl . Gently press patties into the crumbs to coat . Heat canola oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Fry patties in the hot oil until golden brown , about 4 minutes per side . Set patties aside . Stir yogurt , dill , lemon juice , garlic salt , and white pepper together in a bowl . Serve sauce drizzled over falafels . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1/2 cup chopped onions 1 pound brown lentils 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 (16 ounce) package frozen whole leaf spinach 1 tablespoon dried mint , crushed salt to taste 3/4 cup lemon juice  Heat oil in large pot over high heat . When oil is very hot , add onions and stir until onions begin to turn dark brown and caramelize , about 10 minutes . Put the lentils , garlic , frozen spinach , and mint into the pot . Pour in enough water so that it is about 2 inches deeper than the lentil mixture . Stir well to loosen browned bits of onion on the bottom of the pot . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to medium . Simmer , uncovered , until lentils are tender , about 20 minutes . If soup gets too thick , add a little more water . Salt to taste . Lower heat and stir in lemon juice . 
1 pound ground beef (optional) 1 medium onion , chopped (optional) 1/4 teaspoon allspice (optional) salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 cup pine nuts 4 cups hummus spread 3 pita bread rounds paprika , for garnish 1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley , for garnish 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice  In a large skillet over medium heat , combine the ground beef and onions . Cook , stirring frequently , until meat is no longer pink and onion is transparent , about 10 minutes . Remove from heat and drain fat . Season with allspice , salt , and pepper ; set aside . Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the pine nuts to coat with oil . Continue stirring until the nuts turn golden brown , about 2 minutes . Set aside . Assemble by spreading half of the hummus over the bottom of a 9x13 casserole dish . Tear the pita bread rounds into pieces and layer these over the hummus . Spoon the remaining hummus evenly over the bread , then top with pine nuts . Sprinkle with paprika , half the parsley , and drizzle with lemon juice . If adding a meat layer , top the casserole with ground beef mixture and remaining parsley , and serve . 
3 cloves garlic , peeled and minced 1 1/2 cups plain yogurt 1 pinch salt 1 quart water 1 tablespoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 6 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon paprika  In a small bowl , combine the garlic , yogurt and pinch of salt ; mix well . In a large saucepan or stockpot , combine water , vinegar and 1 teaspoon salt ; bring to a boil over high heat . When the water is boiling hard , reduce the heat and gently break the eggs into the water , spacing them well apart . Cook until the whites have set over the yolks , immediately remove the eggs with a slotted spoon and place on a serving dish . Melt butter in a small skillet or saucepan . Stir in paprika . Pour yogurt sauce over eggs and top with paprika butter . Your cilbir is ready ! 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds small chicken thighs 12 ounces Merguez or spicy Italian sausage 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 onions , minced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into 1/2-inch rounds 1/2 stalk celery , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 rutabaga , parsnip , or turnip - peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes 1/2 green bell pepper , cut into 1/4 inch strips 1/2 red bell pepper , cut into 1/4 inch strips 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans 2 cups chicken stock 2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon harissa , or to taste 1 bay leaf 2 zucchini , halved lengthwise and sliced into 1-inch pieces 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 cups couscous 2 cups chicken stock 1/2 cup plain yogurt  Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add chicken thighs , skin-side down , and sear until golden brown on both sides ; set aside . Reduce heat to medium , add sausage , and cook sausage until no longer pink ; set aside . Stir garlic and onions into skillet ; cook until onions have softened and turned translucent . Stir in the carrots , celery , rutabaga , green pepper , red pepper , diced tomatoes , garbanzos , and 2 cups chicken stock . Season with thyme , turmeric , cayenne , harissa , and bay leaf . Cut sausage into 1--inch pieces , and add to skillet along with chicken . Cover , and simmer for 30 minutes until chicken is no longer pink . When the chicken is done , stir in the zucchini , and cook until tender , about 5 minutes . While the chicken is cooking , mix 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) into couscous in a heatproof bowl . Bring 2 cups of chicken stock to a boil and stir into the couscous , cover , and keep hot . Serve chicken stew over the couscous with a dollop of yogurt . 
