1 onion onion , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 bunch bunch recao recao , , or or culantro culantro 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 1.41 1.41 ounce ounce ) ) package package sazon sazon seasoning seasoning ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch adobo adobo seasoning seasoning , , or or to to taste taste olive olive oil oil 8 8 ripe ripe plantains plantains , , peeled peeled and and cut cut on on the the bias bias 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans green green beans beans , , drained drained 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten | | To To make make sofrito sofrito : : Place Place the the onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , parsley parsley , , cilantro cilantro , , recao recao , , garlic garlic , , and and water water into into a a blender blender . . Cover Cover , , and and puree puree until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into a a bowl bowl ; ; cover cover and and refrigerate refrigerate until until ready ready to to use use . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat and and stir stir in in the the ground ground beef beef . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the beef beef is is crumbly crumbly , , evenly evenly browned browned , , and and no no longer longer pink pink . . Stir Stir in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of sofrito sofrito into into the the beef beef , , then then season season with with sazon sazon , , pepper pepper , , and and adobo adobo . . Drain Drain and and discard discard any any excess excess grease grease ; ; set set aside aside . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Arrange Arrange the the plantains plantains in in the the skillet skillet and and pan pan fry fry until until golden golden and and softened softened , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Layer Layer half half of of the the plantains plantains in in a a deep deep baking baking dish dish , , making making sure sure to to cover cover the the entire entire bottom bottom of of the the dish dish . . Pour Pour 4 4 beaten beaten eggs eggs over over the the plantains plantains , , then then spread spread the the beef beef on on top top . . Layer Layer the the green green beans beans over over the the beef beef , , then then arrange arrange the the remaining remaining plantains plantains on on top top . . Pour Pour 4 4 more more beaten beaten eggs eggs evenly evenly over over the the plantains plantains . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the top top with with adobo adobo seasoning seasoning . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the eggs eggs are are firm firm , , 30 30 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds mahi mahi mahi mahi fillets fillets 1/2 1/2 cup cup dark dark rum rum 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into thin thin rings rings 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Arrange Arrange the the fish fish fillets fillets in in an an oven oven proof proof 9x13 9x13 glass glass baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the rum rum and and lime lime juice juice over over the the fish fish and and place place a a slice slice onion onion on on each each fillet fillet . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 2 2 to to 4 4 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove fish fish from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and pour pour off off about about 3/4 3/4 of of the the liquid liquid . . Leave Leave the the onion onion slices slices in in the the dish dish and and place place a a thick thick slice slice of of lemon lemon on on each each fish fish fillet fillet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with oregano oregano and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Place Place a a pat pat of of butter butter or or margarine margarine on on each each fillet fillet . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork . . Be Be careful careful not not to to over over cook cook the the fish fish or or it it will will be be dry dry . . Serve Serve with with the the cooked cooked onion onion and and lemon lemon slices slices . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef flank flank steak steak 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 small small onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and sliced sliced into into strips strips 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white vinegar vinegar | | Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Brown Brown the the flank flank steak steak on on each each side side , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer beef beef to to a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour in in the the beef beef broth broth and and tomato tomato sauce sauce , , then then add add the the onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , tomato tomato paste paste , , cumin cumin , , cilantro cilantro , , olive olive oil oil and and vinegar vinegar . . Stir Stir until until well well blended blended . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on High High for for 4 4 hours hours , , or or on on Low Low for for up up to to 10 10 hours hours . . When When ready ready to to serve serve , , shred shred meat meat and and serve serve with with tortillas tortillas or or rice rice . 
1 cup cup uncooked uncooked long long grain grain white white rice rice 3 3 1/2 1/2 cups cups cold cold water water 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Place Place the the rice rice in in a a bowl bowl with with enough enough water water to to cover cover it it and and let let it it soak soak overnight overnight . . Strain Strain the the rice rice and and discard discard the the water water . . Stir Stir the the cold cold water water and and evaporated evaporated milk milk together together . . Place Place the the drained drained rice rice into into a a blender blender along along with with half half of of the the diluted diluted milk milk . . Blend Blend until until the the rice rice is is finely finely ground ground , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add the the sugar sugar , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and vanilla vanilla ; ; blend blend well well . . Pour Pour in in the the remaining remaining diluted diluted milk milk ; ; blend blend . . Line Line a a strainer strainer with with two two layers layers of of cheesecloth cheesecloth . . Place Place the the strainer strainer over over another another bowl bowl to to catch catch the the liquid liquid . . Strain Strain the the rice rice milk milk through through the the cheesecloth cheesecloth , , discard discard the the solids solids . . Repeat Repeat the the process process if if necessary necessary . . Serve Serve over over ice ice . 
2 pounds pounds mahi mahi mahi mahi fillets fillets 1/2 1/2 cup cup dark dark rum rum 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into thin thin rings rings 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Arrange Arrange the the fish fish fillets fillets in in an an oven oven proof proof 9x13 9x13 glass glass baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the rum rum and and lime lime juice juice over over the the fish fish and and place place a a slice slice onion onion on on each each fillet fillet . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 2 2 to to 4 4 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove fish fish from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and pour pour off off about about 3/4 3/4 of of the the liquid liquid . . Leave Leave the the onion onion slices slices in in the the dish dish and and place place a a thick thick slice slice of of lemon lemon on on each each fish fish fillet fillet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with oregano oregano and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Place Place a a pat pat of of butter butter or or margarine margarine on on each each fillet fillet . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork . . Be Be careful careful not not to to over over cook cook the the fish fish or or it it will will be be dry dry . . Serve Serve with with the the cooked cooked onion onion and and lemon lemon slices slices . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch cubes cubes 1 1 pound pound pork pork , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch squares squares 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers 1/4 1/4 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , pressed pressed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , or or to to taste taste | | Mix Mix sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , pork pork , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers , , orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 6 6 hours hours . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro . 
2 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cornmeal cornmeal , , or or as as needed needed 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan and and stir stir in in sugar sugar , , butter butter , , and and salt salt until until sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Turn Turn heat heat to to low low and and whisk whisk in in 1 1 cup cup of of cornmeal cornmeal until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornmeal cornmeal to to make make a a very very thick thick , , workable workable dough dough . . Heat Heat 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease your your hands hands well well with with 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of oil oil and and scoop scoop about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of cornmeal cornmeal dough dough ; ; roll roll the the dough dough into into a a ball ball , , then then shape shape into into a a 3-inch 3-inch long long stick stick about about 1/2 1/2 inch inch wide wide . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dough dough , , oiling oiling your your hands hands as as needed needed . . Deep-fry Deep-fry the the cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks until until golden golden brown brown , , working working in in batches batches of of 3 3 or or 4 4 at at a a time time . . Drain Drain fried fried cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks on on paper paper towels towels and and keep keep warm warm . . Mix Mix mayonnaise mayonnaise , , ketchup ketchup , , and and garlic garlic salt salt in in a a bowl bowl until until well well combined combined ; ; serve serve cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks with with the the sauce sauce for for dipping dipping . 
15 habanero habanero peppers peppers 1 1 small small mango mango - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 onion onion , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 3 3 green green onions onions , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry mustard mustard powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated lime lime zest zest | | Wearing Wearing disposable disposable gloves gloves , , and and being being careful careful not not to to get get any any in in your your eyes eyes or or on on your your skin skin , , roughly roughly chop chop the the habanero habanero peppers peppers . . Place Place the the habanero habanero peppers peppers , , mango mango , , onion onion , , green green onions onions , , and and garlic garlic into into a a blender blender . . Pour Pour in in the the vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil , , cover cover the the blender blender , , and and pulse pulse until until the the mixture mixture is is very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Stop Stop the the blender blender , , and and add add dry dry mustard mustard powder powder , , salt salt , , curry curry powder powder , , and and lime lime zest zest . . Blend Blend again again until until the the sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into clean clean jars jars , , and and store store in in refrigerator refrigerator . 
2 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in chicken chicken pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sea sea salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 3 3 bok bok choy choy stalks stalks , , chopped chopped | | Stir Stir together together the the garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and sazon sazon seasoning seasoning in in a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Coat Coat chicken chicken pieces pieces with with this this mixture mixture . . Heat Heat a a Dutch Dutch oven oven or or heavy heavy skillet skillet with with a a lid lid over over medium medium heat heat for for at at least least 3 3 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the sugar sugar over over the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan , , and and stir stir gently gently until until it it becomes becomes liquid liquid and and caramelizes caramelizes . . Add Add the the chicken chicken , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cover cover , , and and cook cook for for another another 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , letting letting the the juices juices cook cook down down until until they they are are almost almost gone gone . . Add Add the the bok bok choy choy , , and and cook cook just just until until wilted wilted . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 cups cups fresh fresh okra okra , , ends ends trimmed trimmed and and halved halved lengthwise lengthwise salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced | | Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion has has softened softened and and turned turned translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the okra okra , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Increase Increase the the heat heat to to high high ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the okra okra begins begins to to brown brown , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the lime lime juice juice over over the the okra okra and and continue continue cooking cooking for for 2 2 minutes minutes . 
6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced yellow yellow onion onion 1 1 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed orange orange juice juice 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lemon-pepper lemon-pepper seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce ( ( e.g e.g . . Tabasco™ Tabasco™ ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Pulse Pulse the the garlic garlic and and onion onion in in a a blender blender until until very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Pour Pour in in orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice ; ; season season with with cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , lemon-pepper lemon-pepper , , black black pepper pepper , , salt salt , , cilantro cilantro , , and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Blend Blend until until thoroughly thoroughly incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour in in the the olive olive oil oil , , and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . 
2 cups cups sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter - - chilled chilled , , cut cut into into tablespoon-size tablespoon-size pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated lime lime zest zest 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x5 9x5 inch inch loaf loaf pan pan . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt , , set set aside aside . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the sugar sugar and and butter butter . . Beat Beat in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the lime lime zest zest , , nutmeg nutmeg , , cinnamon cinnamon and and allspice allspice . . Add Add the the dry dry ingredients ingredients alternately alternately with with the the milk milk , , stirring stirring after after each each addition addition . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake for for 75 75 to to 90 90 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted comes comes out out clean clean . . Cool Cool in in the the pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before turning turning out out onto onto a a rack rack to to cool cool completely completely . 
10 fresh fresh mint mint leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 lime lime , , cut cut into into 4 4 wedges wedges 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup ice ice cubes cubes 1 1 1/2 1/2 fluid fluid ounces ounces white white rum rum 1/2 1/2 cup cup club club soda soda | | Place Place mint mint leaves leaves and and 1 1 lime lime wedge wedge into into a a sturdy sturdy glass glass . . Use Use a a muddler muddler to to crush crush the the mint mint and and lime lime to to release release the the mint mint oils oils and and lime lime juice juice . . Add Add 2 2 more more lime lime wedges wedges and and the the sugar sugar , , and and muddle muddle again again to to release release the the lime lime juice juice . . Do Do not not strain strain the the mixture mixture . . Fill Fill the the glass glass almost almost to to the the top top with with ice ice . . Pour Pour the the rum rum over over the the ice ice , , and and fill fill the the glass glass with with carbonated carbonated water water . . Stir Stir , , taste taste , , and and add add more more sugar sugar if if desired desired . . Garnish Garnish with with the the remaining remaining lime lime wedge wedge . 
3 1/2 1/2 cups cups brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages grated grated coconut coconut 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3/4 3/4 cup cup seedless seedless raisins raisins 4 4 ounces ounces candied candied mixed mixed fruit fruit peel peel 4 4 ounces ounces fresh fresh cherries cherries , , pitted pitted and and cut cut into into small small pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup baking baking powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon mixed mixed essence essence 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 cup cup margarine margarine 1/2 1/2 cup cup shortening shortening 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water , , or or more more if if needed needed 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease five five 8x4-inch 8x4-inch baking baking pans pans . . Combine Combine brown brown sugar sugar , , coconut coconut , , flour flour , , raisins raisins , , fruit fruit peel peel , , cherries cherries , , baking baking powder powder , , mixed mixed essence essence , , and and nutmeg nutmeg in in a a large large bowl bowl using using a a large large wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Combine Combine margarine margarine and and shortening shortening in in a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl ; ; heat heat in in microwave microwave until until melted melted , , 30 30 seconds seconds to to 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour melted melted mixture mixture into into flour flour mixture mixture , , alternating alternating with with milk milk , , until until batter batter is is just just mixed mixed . . Add Add water water , , a a teaspoon teaspoon at at a a time time , , if if more more moisture moisture is is needed needed . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the prepared prepared baking baking pans pans , , smoothing smoothing the the tops tops with with the the back back of of a a wet wet spoon spoon . . Sprinkle Sprinkle white white sugar sugar over over each each loaf loaf . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick or or skewer skewer inserted inserted in in the the middle middle comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Cool Cool in in the the pans pans for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Invert Invert onto onto cooking cooking racks racks . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded coconut coconut 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 eggs eggs 1/3 1/3 cup cup low-fat low-fat milk milk 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup canola canola oil oil 1 1 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons coconut coconut extract extract ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a loaf loaf pan pan with with butter butter . . Combine Combine flour flour , , sugar sugar , , coconut coconut , , baking baking powder powder , , and and salt salt in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; stir stir once once or or twice twice with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Add Add eggs eggs , , milk milk , , water water , , oil oil , , coconut coconut extract extract , , vanilla vanilla extract extract , , and and cinnamon cinnamon . . Mix Mix well well until until batter batter is is blended blended . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the greased greased loaf loaf pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Cool Cool in in the the pan pan for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Invert Invert onto onto a a wire wire rack rack to to cool cool completely completely . 
Filling : : 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 cup cup dried dried yellow yellow split split peas peas 1 1 scotch scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , minced minced 2 2 garlic garlic cloves cloves 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground turmeric turmeric 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin Puri Puri : : 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups self-rising self-rising flour flour 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup warm warm water water , , or or more more as as needed needed | | Bring Bring chicken chicken stock stock and and yellow yellow split split peas peas to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until split split peas peas are are soft soft , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and let let cool cool , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine yellow yellow split split peas peas , , scotch scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , turmeric turmeric , , and and cumin cumin in in a a food food processor processor ; ; blend blend until until filling filling is is finely finely ground ground . . Combine Combine flour flour and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Pour Pour in in water water slowly slowly , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until dough dough starts starts to to come come together together . . Add Add a a little little more more water water if if dough dough seems seems dry dry . . Knead Knead dough dough on on a a floured floured work work surface surface until until soft soft and and no no longer longer sticky sticky . . Let Let dough dough rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , covered covered with with a a damp damp cloth cloth . . Roll Roll dough dough into into a a large large circle circle about about 1/4-inch 1/4-inch thick thick . . Brush Brush 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil over over the the surface surface of of the the dough dough . . Roll Roll up up into into a a long long roll roll . . Cut Cut into into 10 10 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece of of dough dough into into a a 6-inch 6-inch circle circle . . Let Let circles circles rest rest , , covered covered with with damp damp cloth cloth , , for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide filling filling among among circles circles . . Wrap Wrap dough dough around around filling filling , , pinching pinching edges edges to to seal seal ; ; roll roll into into balls balls . . Roll Roll each each ball ball back back out out into into a a large large , , thin thin circle circle . . Heat Heat 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Cook Cook 1 1 piece piece of of dough dough in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until it it puffs puffs up up and and turns turns light light brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip and and continue continue cooking cooking until until second second side side is is browned browned , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a colander colander to to cool cool ; ; cover cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining oil oil and and dough dough . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon ghee ghee ( ( clarified clarified butter butter ) ) 2 2 ounces ounces vermicelli vermicelli , , broken broken into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 12 12 fluid fluid ounces ounces water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons raisins raisins 1/2 1/2 cup cup toasted toasted almonds almonds ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat ghee ghee in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add vermicelli vermicelli ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until golden golden brown brown , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour evaporated evaporated milk milk and and water water over over vermicelli vermicelli ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk and and cinnamon cinnamon into into vermicelli vermicelli mixture mixture ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until vermicelli vermicelli is is cooked cooked and and milk milk is is thickened thickened , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir raisins raisins into into vermicelli vermicelli mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until raisins raisins are are plump plump and and mixture mixture is is thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cool cool slightly slightly . . Serve Serve garnished garnished with with almonds almonds . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef ( ( 85 85 % % lean lean ) ) 1 1 cup cup diced diced yellow yellow onions onions 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , plus plus more more to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons red-wine red-wine vinegar vinegar 3 3 cups cups crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup currants currants or or raisins raisins 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced pimiento-stuffed pimiento-stuffed green green olives olives , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add ground ground beef beef and and break break up up into into small small pieces pieces with with a a spoon spoon or or spatula spatula as as it it browns browns . . Cook Cook until until meat meat completely completely loses loses its its pink pink color color , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add diced diced onion onion and and salt salt . . Cook Cook until until onions onions turn turn translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , cinnamon cinnamon , , bay bay leaves leaves , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Cook Cook 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add garlic garlic and and cook cook 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , and and water water . . Cook Cook a a few few minutes minutes while while deglazing deglazing pan pan . . Add Add currants currants ; ; bring bring back back to to a a simmer simmer . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low ; ; cover cover and and cook cook until until meat meat is is tender tender , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Gently Gently stir stir in in sliced sliced olives olives ; ; cover cover and and cook cook another another 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 large large green green bell bell pepper pepper , , finely finely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon yellow yellow mustard mustard 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 slices slices Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 4 4 oval-shaped oval-shaped Portuguese Portuguese rolls rolls , , split split 1/2 1/2 head head cabbage cabbage , , finely finely sliced sliced 2 2 tomatoes tomatoes , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced | | Mix Mix ground ground beef beef , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , finely finely chopped chopped onion onion , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , soy soy sauce sauce , , yellow yellow mustard mustard , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Form Form mixture mixture into into 4 4 patties patties that that will will fit fit inside inside the the rolls rolls . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook patties patties until until browned browned on on the the bottom bottom , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and flip flip ; ; cook cook for for 4 4 minutes minutes . . Top Top each each patty patty with with a a slice slice of of Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese ; ; cook cook until until cheese cheese starts starts to to melt melt , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center of of each each patty patty should should read read 150 150 degrees degrees F F ( ( 66 66 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for medium-well medium-well . . Mix Mix ketchup ketchup and and mayonnaise mayonnaise together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Spread Spread evenly evenly over over both both sides sides of of each each bun bun . . Transfer Transfer a a patty patty to to each each bun bun ; ; top top with with sliced sliced cabbage cabbage , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and onion onion . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried oregano oregano salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds beef beef stew stew meat meat , , cut cut into into small small pieces pieces water water to to cover cover 1/2 1/2 ( ( 6.5 6.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 cubes cubes beef beef bouillon bouillon 1 1 cup cup 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch cut cut fresh fresh green green beans beans 2 2 carrots carrots , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped celery celery 1 1 large large chayote chayote squash squash - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , and and sliced sliced lengthwise lengthwise 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can small small white white beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1/2 1/2 head head cabbage cabbage , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green banana banana , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch pieces pieces 1 1 yellow yellow plantain plantain , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 5 5 large large llautias llautias ( ( yautias yautias ) ) , , peeled peeled and and quartered quartered 6 6 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped peeled peeled pumpkin pumpkin 2 2 ears ears fresh fresh corn corn , , sliced sliced into into 6 6 pieces pieces each each 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; add add onion onion , , garlic garlic , , cilantro cilantro , , white white pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , and and salt salt . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until onion onion is is browned browned and and very very tender tender , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add stew stew meat meat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until meat meat is is browned browned on on all all sides sides , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour enough enough water water over over meat meat mixture mixture to to fill fill pot pot 3/4 3/4 full full ; ; add add tomato tomato sauce sauce and and beef beef bouillon bouillon . . Mix Mix green green beans beans , , carrots carrots , , celery celery , , chayote chayote squash squash , , white white beans beans , , cabbage cabbage , , green green banana banana , , yellow yellow plantain plantain , , llautias llautias , , potatoes potatoes , , pumpkin pumpkin , , corn corn , , and and green green bell bell pepper pepper ( ( in in this this order order ) ) , , cooking cooking and and stirring stirring after after each each addition addition . . Cook Cook until until all all the the vegetables vegetables are are tender tender and and stew stew has has formed formed a a rich rich broth broth , , 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Add Add more more water water or or salt salt if if needed needed . 
1/4 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1/4 1/4 cup cup mustard mustard 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) loaf loaf Cuban Cuban bread bread 8 8 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 6 6 thin thin slices slices smoked smoked fully-cooked fully-cooked ham ham 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cooked cooked pulled pulled pork pork , , heated heated 1 1 large large dill dill pickle pickle , , sliced sliced thinly thinly lengthwise lengthwise 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , or or as as needed needed | | Mix Mix mayonnaise mayonnaise , , mustard mustard , , and and cayenne cayenne together together in in a a bowl bowl to to make make the the sauce sauce . . Trim Trim off off ends ends of of bread bread . . Cut Cut loaf loaf in in half half and and evenly evenly split split bread bread to to make make tops tops and and bottoms bottoms of of 2 2 sandwiches sandwiches . . Spread Spread each each half half on on both both sides sides generously generously with with the the mayo/mustard mayo/mustard sauce sauce . . Divide Divide sandwich sandwich ingredients ingredients between between the the two two bottom bottom halves halves in in this this order order : : 2 2 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , 3 3 slices slices ham ham , , hot hot cooked cooked pork pork , , pickle pickle slices slices , , and and 2 2 more more slices slices of of Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Place Place tops tops on on sandwiches sandwiches . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place sandwiches sandwiches in in skillet skillet and and press press down down with with a a heavy heavy weight weight ( ( such such as as another another skillet skillet or or foil-wrapped foil-wrapped bricks bricks ) ) . . Toast Toast sandwiches sandwiches until until bread bread is is crisp crisp and and filling filling is is heated heated through through , , 3 3 or or 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . 
Starter : : 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup flour flour Dough Dough : : 1 1 package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 3/4 3/4 cup cup warm warm water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons fine fine salt salt 3 3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed - - divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornmeal cornmeal Water Water to to spray spray tops tops of of loaves loaves | | Combine Combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon yeast yeast , , and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup flour flour in in a a bowl bowl or or measuring measuring cup cup . . Whisk Whisk the the starter starter until until well well blended blended . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate overnight overnight . . Place Place 1 1 package package active active dry dry yeast yeast and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sugar sugar in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Pour Pour in in 3/4 3/4 cup cup warm warm water water . . Let Let rest rest 15 15 minutes minutes to to ensure ensure yeast yeast is is alive alive ( ( bubbles bubbles will will form form on on surface surface ) ) . . Add Add lard lard and and salt salt to to bowl bowl ; ; add add 1 1 cup cup of of the the flour flour . . Mix Mix until until all all ingredients ingredients are are incorporated incorporated and and dough dough forms forms a a sticky sticky ball ball . . Add Add the the starter starter ( ( reserving reserving 1/4 1/4 cup cup if if you you want want to to keep keep the the starter starter going going , , if if desired desired . . Otherwise Otherwise add add it it all all . . ) ) . . Sprinkle Sprinkle most most of of the the rest rest of of the the flour flour on on the the dough dough , , reserving reserving 1/2 1/2 cup cup to to be be used used if if needed needed when when kneading kneading . . Turn Turn dough dough out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead until until dough dough comes comes together together in in a a firm firm ball ball , , adding adding additional additional flour flour only only as as needed needed . . Dough Dough should should be be soft soft and and supple supple with with just just a a bit bit of of tackiness tackiness on on the the surface surface . . Place Place dough dough in in a a bowl bowl and and coat coat surface surface with with a a little little vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with a a damp damp kitchen kitchen towel towel and and place place in in a a warm warm spot spot to to rise rise . . Let Let rise rise until until at at least least doubled doubled in in size size , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Line Line two two rimmed rimmed baking baking sheets sheets with with parchment parchment paper paper and and sprinkle sprinkle with with a a little little cornmeal cornmeal . . Transfer Transfer dough dough onto onto lightly lightly floured floured surface surface . . Lightly Lightly press press the the dough dough into into a a rectangle rectangle with with your your lightly lightly floured floured hands hands . . Divide Divide dough dough in in half half and and press press and and shape shape each each half half into into a a long long 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick rectangle rectangle about about 12 12 inches inches long long . . Roll Roll up up tightly tightly starting starting at at the the long long end end to to form form a a skinny skinny loaf loaf . . Flatten Flatten a a bit bit . . Transfer Transfer each each loaf loaf to to a a prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet and and dust dust with with a a bit bit of of flour flour . . Cover Cover with with a a light light , , dry dry towel towel and and let let rise rise until until doubled doubled in in size size , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Cut Cut a a 1/4-inch 1/4-inch deep deep slit slit down down the the top top of of the the loaves loaves with with a a sharp sharp knife knife or or razor razor . . Mist Mist loaves loaves lightly lightly with with water water . . Place Place pans pans in in pre-heated pre-heated oven oven , , one one pan pan on on lower lower rack rack , , one one on on higher higher rack rack . . After After 10 10 minutes minutes , , switch switch pan pan positions positions . . Continue Continue to to bake bake until until loaves loaves are are golden golden brown brown , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes longer longer . . Transfer Transfer loaves loaves to to cooling cooling rack rack and and let let cool cool to to room room temperature temperature before before slicing slicing . 
9 ounces ounces dried dried red red sorrel sorrel buds buds 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated ginger ginger 3 3 strips strips dried dried orange orange zest zest 1 1 white white clove clove 1 1 quart quart water water 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar ice ice cubes cubes | | Combine Combine sorrel sorrel , , ginger ginger , , dried dried orange orange zest zest , , and and clove clove in in a a bowl bowl . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan or or kettle kettle ; ; pour pour over over sorrel sorrel mixture mixture . . Stir Stir in in sugar sugar until until dissolved dissolved . . Let Let mixture mixture steep steep at at room room temperature temperature , , 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Strain Strain sorrel sorrel mixture mixture through through a a fine-mesh fine-mesh sieve sieve into into a a pitcher pitcher ; ; discard discard solids solids . . Serve Serve over over ice ice . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1 1 habanero habanero pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch strips strips | | Combine Combine the the onion onion , , brown brown sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , thyme thyme , , sesame sesame oil oil , , garlic garlic , , allspice allspice and and habanero habanero pepper pepper in in the the container container of of a a food food processor processor or or blender blender . . Process Process until until smooth smooth . . Place Place the the chicken chicken into into a a large large resealable resealable bag bag , , and and pour pour in in 3/4 3/4 of of the the sauce sauce . . Squeeze Squeeze out out excess excess air air , , and and seal seal . . Marinate Marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least one one hour hour . . Preheat Preheat your your oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from bag bag , , and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Broil Broil chicken chicken for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once to to ensure ensure even even cooking cooking . . Heat Heat remaining remaining sauce sauce in in a a small small pan pan , , and and pour pour over over chicken chicken when when serving serving . 
2 large large onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 heads heads garlic garlic , , cloves cloves peeled peeled and and trimmed trimmed 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , stems stems trimmed trimmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried oregano oregano leaves leaves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | Combine Combine onions onions , , garlic garlic cloves cloves , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , cilantro cilantro , , oregano oregano , , vinegar vinegar , , cumin cumin , , black black pepper pepper , , and and salt salt in in a a food food processor processor ; ; process process into into a a smooth smooth paste paste . 
2 pounds pounds yuca yuca , , peeled peeled and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2 2 pounds pounds green green plantains plantains , , peeled peeled and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2 2 pounds pounds yautia yautia , , peeled peeled and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups milk milk 1 1 pound pound lard lard 1 1 pound pound achiote achiote seeds seeds 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 1 1 pound pound ham ham , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 2 2 cups cups garbanzo garbanzo beans beans 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar pitted pitted Spanish Spanish olives olives 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar capers capers 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange juice juice 4 4 sprigs sprigs cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 24 24 plantain plantain leaves leaves kitchen kitchen string string | | Combine Combine yuca yuca , , green green plantains plantains , , yautia yautia , , and and milk milk in in a a blender blender ; ; puree puree into into a a thick thick paste paste the the consistency consistency of of oatmeal oatmeal . . Combine Combine lard lard and and achiote achiote seeds seeds in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; heat heat until until lard lard is is melted melted , , and and reddish reddish in in color color , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Strain Strain out out achiote achiote seeds seeds . . Mix Mix half half of of the the lard lard into into the the yuca yuca paste paste . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and green green bell bell pepper pepper ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add pork pork , , ham ham , , garbanzo garbanzo beans beans , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , olives olives , , capers capers , , orange orange juice juice , , cilantro cilantro , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Mix Mix 2/3 2/3 of of the the remaining remaining lard lard into into the the pork pork mixture mixture . . Smear Smear each each plantain plantain leaf leaf with with a a small small amount amount of of remaining remaining lard lard . . Place Place a a large large spoonful spoonful of of the the yuca yuca paste paste in in the the center center of of each each one one ; ; top top with with a a scoop scoop of of the the pork pork mixture mixture . . Fold Fold up up the the sides sides of of each each leaf leaf to to enclose enclose the the filling filling and and create create a a rectangular rectangular pastel pastel . . Stack Stack 2 2 pasteles pasteles and and tie tie them them together together with with kitchen kitchen string string . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining pasteles pasteles . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasteles pasteles . . Cook Cook until until filling filling is is tender tender , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Unwrap Unwrap pasteles pasteles before before serving serving . 
6 flounder flounder fillets fillets 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 orange orange bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , minced minced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 tomatoes tomatoes , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh orange orange juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons jerk jerk seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place flounder flounder fillets fillets in in a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Mix Mix lime lime juice juice , , parsley parsley , , and and salt salt together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour over over fillets fillets . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add olive olive oil oil , , onion onion , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , orange orange bell bell pepper pepper , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomatoes tomatoes , , orange orange juice juice , , jerk jerk seasoning seasoning , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Spread Spread 3/4 3/4 of of the the onion onion mixture mixture over over the the fillets fillets in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until fillets fillets flake flake easily easily with with a a fork fork , , 10 10 to to 13 13 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . . Serve Serve remaining remaining onion onion mixture mixture alongside alongside fillets fillets . 
3 pounds pounds chicken chicken legs legs 1 1 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 1/2 1/2 white white onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 head head garlic garlic , , cloves cloves separated separated and and minced minced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons seasoned seasoned salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons paprika paprika 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground thyme thyme 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons whole whole cloves cloves vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | Combine Combine chicken chicken legs legs , , lemon lemon juice juice , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , paprika paprika , , thyme thyme , , pepper pepper , , and and cloves cloves in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Cover Cover and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 12 12 hours hours . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Fry Fry chicken chicken in in batches batches until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes per per side side . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . 
3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup cold cold water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable shortening shortening 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 shallots shallots , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 pinch pinch chile chile powder powder , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon beef beef broth broth 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk , , beaten beaten | | Place Place flour flour in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Make Make a a well well in in the the center center ; ; add add water water and and salt salt . . Mix Mix lightly lightly with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and chill chill for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix shortening shortening and and butter butter together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Transfer Transfer dough dough to to a a flat flat work work surface surface ; ; roll roll into into a a rectangle rectangle about about 1/4-inch 1/4-inch thick thick . . Spread Spread 1/2 1/2 of of the the shortening shortening mixture mixture on on top top . . Fold Fold 1 1 side side of of the the rectangle rectangle into into the the center center ; ; spread spread remaining remaining shortening shortening on on top top . . Fold Fold other other side side of of the the rectangle rectangle over over the the first first , , like like a a letter letter . . Roll Roll into into a a 1/4-inch-thick 1/4-inch-thick rectangle rectangle ; ; fold fold into into thirds thirds . . Repeat Repeat the the rolling rolling and and folding folding process process one one more more time time . . Wrap Wrap dough dough with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and chill chill , , 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Fill Fill a a baking baking pan pan with with water water and and place place on on the the bottom bottom rack rack of of the the oven oven . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Pound Pound shallots shallots , , parsley parsley , , garlic garlic , , and and chile chile powder powder into into paste paste with with a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle . . Preheat Preheat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir beef beef until until browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in shallot shallot paste paste , , onion onion , , and and beef beef broth broth . . Cover Cover and and cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until juices juices are are absorbed absorbed , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Let Let cool cool , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Roll Roll chilled chilled dough dough to to a a rectangle rectangle about about 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick . . Cut Cut into into 2 2 1/2-inch 1/2-inch circles circles . . Place Place 1 1 1/3 1/3 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the beef beef mixture mixture on on 1 1 side side of of each each circle circle . . Fold Fold and and lightly lightly press press edges edges to to seal seal . . Transfer Transfer filled filled patties patties to to a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Brush Brush tops tops and and edges edges with with egg egg yolk yolk . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until puffy puffy , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce oven oven temperature temperature to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and continue continue baking baking until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 cup cup white white rice rice 1/2 1/2 cup cup coconut coconut milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup canned canned kidney kidney beans beans 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme salt salt to to taste taste 3 3 whole whole cloves cloves 1 1 small small onion onion | | Combine Combine water water , , rice rice , , coconut coconut milk milk , , kidney kidney beans beans , , thyme thyme , , and and salt salt in in a a large large pot pot . . Stick Stick cloves cloves into into onion onion and and add add to to the the pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; simmer simmer , , covered covered , , until until most most of of the the liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover and and cook cook until until remaining remaining liquid liquid is is reduced reduced , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . 
3/4 cup cup warm warm water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons shortening shortening 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided | | Stir Stir water water and and brown brown sugar sugar together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle yeast yeast evenly evenly over over the the surface surface . . Cover Cover with with a a clean clean cloth cloth and and let let stand stand until until yeast yeast softens softens and and forms forms a a creamy creamy foam foam , , about about 7 7 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , whole whole wheat wheat flour flour , , shortening shortening , , and and salt salt together together in in a a large large bowl bowl until until shortening shortening is is thoroughly thoroughly incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour in in yeast yeast mixture mixture ; ; mix mix with with your your hands hands or or a a wooden wooden spoon spoon until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Dust Dust a a flat flat work work surface surface with with flour flour . . Knead Knead dough dough until until smooth smooth and and holding holding its its shape shape . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a large large bowl bowl with with 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Add Add dough dough ; ; turn turn to to coat coat with with oil oil . . Cover Cover with with a a clean clean cloth cloth and and let let rise rise until until doubled doubled , , about about 35 35 minutes minutes . . Gently Gently punch punch down down dough dough to to deflate deflate . . Dust Dust your your work work surface surface with with more more flour flour . . Roll Roll dough dough out out until until it it is is 1/3-inch 1/3-inch thick thick . . Fold Fold in in half half and and roll roll out out again again . . Repeat Repeat this this process process 4 4 times times . . Fill Fill a a large large baking baking pan pan with with 1 1 inch inch water water and and place place it it on on the the bottom bottom rack rack of of the the oven oven . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a jelly jelly roll roll pan pan with with 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Cut Cut dough dough into into 9 9 pieces pieces and and place place on on the the greased greased pan pan . . Cover Cover with with a a clean clean , , damp damp cloth cloth ; ; let let rise rise until until puffy puffy , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven above above the the water water until until browned browned on on top top , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 cups cups water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red cooking cooking wine wine 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons hot hot sauce sauce ( ( such such as as Louisiana® Louisiana® ) ) 1 1 ( ( 1.41 1.41 ounce ounce ) ) package package sazon sazon seasoning seasoning ( ( such such as as Badia® Badia® Tropical® Tropical® ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground bay bay leaf leaf 3 3 ounces ounces Spanish-style Spanish-style olives olives 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 small small butternut butternut squash squash , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into cubes cubes | | Cook Cook and and stir stir ground ground beef beef in in a a large large stockpot stockpot until until browned browned , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain grease grease . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in small small skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir into into beef beef in in the the stockpot stockpot . . Pour Pour tomato tomato sauce sauce , , water water , , cooking cooking wine wine , , and and hot hot sauce sauce into into the the stockpot stockpot . . Stir Stir in in sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , parsley parsley , , garlic garlic powder powder , , onion onion powder powder , , cumin cumin , , pepper pepper , , and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer picadillo picadillo , , uncovered uncovered , , until until slightly slightly thickened thickened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Split Split olives olives in in half half with with your your fingers fingers and and stir stir into into the the picadillo picadillo . . Add Add squash squash . . Simmer Simmer until until liquid liquid reduces reduces but but picadillo picadillo is is not not dry dry , , 45 45 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt . 
3 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in goat goat meat meat , , cubed cubed 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup Jamaican Jamaican curry curry powder powder , , divided divided 2 2 Scotch Scotch bonnet bonnet peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 6 6 allspice allspice berries berries ( ( pimento pimento seeds seeds ) ) 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 4 4 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme , , leaves leaves stripped stripped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 large large potatoes potatoes , , diced diced ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 carrots carrots , , diced diced ( ( optional optional ) ) water water to to cover cover | | Combine Combine goat goat meat meat and and vinegar vinegar in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; cover cover with with water water . . Let Let stand stand , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , massaging massaging the the meat meat . . Mix Mix onion onion , , 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder , , Scotch Scotch bonnet bonnet peppers peppers , , garlic garlic , , allspice allspice berries berries , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and thyme thyme together together in in a a bowl bowl to to make make a a spice spice rub rub . . Rub Rub into into goat goat meat meat until until coated coated . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate , , 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Scrape Scrape spice spice rub rub off off the the goat goat meat meat , , reserving reserving it it in in a a bowl bowl . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Add Add remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder ; ; stir stir until until dark dark and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add goat goat meat meat ; ; cook cook until until browned browned , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Stir Stir reserved reserved spice spice rub rub , , potatoes potatoes , , and and carrots carrots into into the the saucepan saucepan . . Pour Pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer , , covered covered , , adding adding more more water water as as needed needed , , until until goat goat meat meat is is tender tender , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Discard Discard allspice allspice berries berries . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
3 pounds pounds beef beef tripe tripe , , trimmed trimmed of of fat fat and and cut cut into into cubes cubes 4 4 lemons lemons , , juiced juiced water water to to cover cover 3 3 quarts quarts beef beef stock stock , , divided divided 8 8 ounces ounces cassava cassava , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces yams yams , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces pumpkin pumpkin , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 1/2 1/2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2/3 2/3 cup cup sofrito sofrito 1 1 ear ear corn corn , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Combine Combine tripe tripe and and lemon lemon juice juice in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Let Let sit sit , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer tripe tripe and and lemon lemon juice juice to to a a large large pot pot . . Cover Cover with with 2 2 inches inches of of water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until slightly slightly softened softened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and rinse rinse tripe tripe . . Return Return tripe tripe to to the the pot pot . . Cover Cover with with 2 2 quarts quarts beef beef broth broth , , adding adding water water as as needed needed . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and cook cook until until tender tender , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Stir Stir remaining remaining beef beef stock stock , , cassava cassava , , potatoes potatoes , , yams yams , , pumpkin pumpkin , , sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , sofrito sofrito , , and and corn corn into into the the pot pot . . Cook Cook until until tender tender , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes more more . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup canned canned coconut coconut milk milk ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ketchup ketchup 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter | | Place Place chicken chicken on on a a plate plate . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the green green onion onion , , cilantro cilantro , , garlic garlic , , onion onion , , salt salt and and pepper pepper over over it it . . Cover Cover , , and and marinate marinate for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a deep deep pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the sugar sugar , , and and cook cook until until the the sugar sugar has has melted melted into into a a nice nice golden golden brown brown syrup syrup . . Add Add the the chicken chicken pieces pieces , , and and brown brown quickly quickly while while turning turning continuously continuously . . Cover Cover the the pot pot , , and and let let it it cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in 1 1 cup cup of of water water , , coconut coconut milk milk and and pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Replace Replace the the lid lid , , and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the ketchup ketchup and and butter butter . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until chicken chicken is is fork fork tender tender , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Taste Taste and and season season with with additional additional salt salt and and pepper pepper if if needed needed . . Serve Serve chicken chicken with with the the sauce sauce in in the the pot pot as as a a gravy gravy . 
2 pounds pounds beef beef skirt skirt steak steak 1 1 large large navel navel orange orange , , juiced juiced 3 3 limes limes , , juiced juiced 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , plus plus more more for for drizzling drizzling 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon coarse coarse salt salt for for finishing finishing Lime Lime wedges wedges for for serving serving | | Cut Cut skirt skirt steaks steaks into into about about 3 3 or or 4 4 smaller smaller pieces pieces so so it it 's 's easier easier to to fit fit them them into into marinade marinade dish dish . . Whisk Whisk orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice , , olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , cumin cumin , , pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Place Place skirt skirt steak steak pieces pieces , , 1 1 at at a a time time , , into into the the marinade marinade to to thoroughly thoroughly coat coat them them . . Add Add sliced sliced onions onions and and toss toss with with the the meat meat . . Transfer Transfer mixture mixture and and marinade marinade to to a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Squeeze Squeeze out out air air , , seal seal bag bag , , and and place place on on a a dish dish . . Refrigerate Refrigerate 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Transfer Transfer pieces pieces of of meat meat onto onto paper paper towel-lined towel-lined rimmed rimmed sheet sheet pan pan to to drain drain for for a a couple couple of of minutes minutes . . Cook Cook over over hot hot coals coals . . Grill Grill first first side side 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn and and grill grill second second side side until until internal internal temperature temperature is is about about 125 125 degrees degrees F F ( ( 53 53 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Look Look for for a a shiny shiny glossy glossy surface surface indicating indicating the the meat meat juice juice is is coming coming to to the the surface surface ; ; this this indicates indicates the the meat meat is is just just about about done done . . Transfer Transfer to to a a plate plate and and allow allow meat meat to to rest rest a a few few minutes minutes . . Slice Slice into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slices slices and and arrange arrange on on a a serving serving plate plate . . Spoon Spoon accumulated accumulated juices juices over over the the meat meat . . Drizzle Drizzle with with olive olive oil oil and and sprinkle sprinkle with with coarse coarse salt salt and and chopped chopped cilantro cilantro . . Serve Serve with with lime lime wedges wedges . 
2 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast , , cut cut into into chunks chunks salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 8 8 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock , , divided divided 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can pigeon pigeon peas peas , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 3/4 3/4 cup cup arborio arborio rice rice 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Season Season pork pork with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add pork pork ; ; cook cook until until browned browned , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Pour Pour in in 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer pork pork until until is is fork-tender fork-tender , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Shred Shred with with a a fork fork and and transfer transfer to to a a plate plate . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in the the pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add pigeon pigeon peas peas and and onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in arborio arborio rice rice . . Pour Pour in in enough enough chicken chicken stock stock to to barely barely cover cover the the rice rice ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until absorbed absorbed . . Continue Continue adding adding stock stock , , stirring stirring often often , , until until each each addition addition is is absorbed absorbed and and rice rice is is tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Fold Fold shredded shredded pork pork into into the the rice rice . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top . 
1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white vinegar vinegar 10 10 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 5 5 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder , , trimmed trimmed of of excess excess fat fat | | Combine Combine olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper in in a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle ; ; mash mash into into a a paste paste . . Make Make deep deep slits slits into into the the pork pork with with a a small small knife knife . . Stuff Stuff slits slits with with the the paste paste ; ; rub rub any any remaining remaining paste paste over over the the pork pork . . Place Place pork pork in in a a plastic plastic roasting roasting bag bag and and put put in in a a roasting roasting pan pan with with a a rack rack . . Let Let marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , 8 8 to to 48 48 hours hours . . Take Take pork pork out out of of the the refrigerator refrigerator , , uncover uncover , , and and bring bring to to room room temperature temperature , , 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Roast Roast pork pork skin-side skin-side down down in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Flip Flip pork pork and and continue continue roasting roasting , , skin-side skin-side up up , , until until juices juices run run clear clear and and an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center reads reads at at least least 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , 2 2 to to 4 4 hours hours more more . 
9 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 7 7 pound pound ) ) skin-on skin-on , , bone-in bone-in pork pork shoulder shoulder ( ( picnic picnic ) ) roast roast 1 1 ( ( 1.5 1.5 liter liter ) ) bottle bottle red red table table wine wine | | Crush Crush garlic garlic into into small small pieces pieces in in a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle . . Add Add olive olive oil oil , , salt salt , , oregano oregano , , and and black black pepper pepper ; ; mash mash into into a a paste paste . . Make Make 12 12 deep deep incisions incisions a a few few inches inches apart apart in in the the roast roast using using a a sharp sharp knife knife . . Pack Pack the the seasoned seasoned garlic garlic paste paste evenly evenly into into the the incisions incisions and and over over the the roast roast . . Transfer Transfer roast roast to to a a large large bowl bowl . . Pour Pour in in red red wine wine , , covering covering roast roast completely completely . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , 24 24 hours hours . . Pour Pour out out red red wine wine . . Place Place roast roast fat-side fat-side up up in in a a roasting roasting pan pan ; ; cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Let Let sit sit at at room room temperature temperature , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place roast roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven ; ; reduce reduce temperature temperature to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake until until slightly slightly pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 4 4 hours hours . . Increase Increase temperature temperature to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Uncover Uncover roast roast and and continue continue baking baking until until fat fat is is crispy crispy and and an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center reads reads 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 71 71 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 1 1 hour hour more more . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and let let rest rest before before carving carving , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . 
4 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets salmon salmon fillets fillets , , or or more more to to taste taste ice ice cold cold water water to to cover cover 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 4 4 drops drops lemon lemon juice juice 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons jerk jerk marinade marinade , , or or more more to to taste taste 3 3 bunches bunches scallions scallions , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 yellow yellow onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 5 5 sprigs sprigs cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped ginger ginger 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Place Place salmon salmon in in a a large large bowl bowl with with ice ice cold cold water water and and 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt . . Let Let soak soak , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Run Run a a knife knife along along the the skin skin to to remove remove all all scales scales . . Rinse Rinse salmon salmon in in ice ice cold cold water water and and lemon lemon juice juice . . Pat Pat dry dry with with a a paper paper towel towel . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine garlic garlic powder powder and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle lightly lightly over over both both sides sides of of each each salmon salmon fillet fillet . . Rub Rub jerk jerk marinade marinade over over both both sides sides of of salmon salmon . . Place Place salmon salmon fillets fillets in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Add Add scallions scallions , , onion onion , , cilantro cilantro , , and and ginger ginger ; ; mix mix well well to to combine combine . . Heat Heat oil oil in in an an ovensafe ovensafe skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook salmon salmon fillets fillets skin-side skin-side down down , , in in batches batches if if necessary necessary , , until until skin skin is is golden golden , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip and and continue continue cooking cooking until until flesh flesh is is pale pale pink pink , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes more more . . Place Place skillet skillet in in the the oven oven . . Bake Bake salmon salmon in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until flesh flesh flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from oven oven and and allow allow salmon salmon to to rest rest before before serving serving , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lime lime juice juice 1 1 sprig sprig yerba yerba buena buena ( ( fresh fresh mint mint ) ) 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces sparkling sparkling water water ice ice cubes cubes 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces rum rum 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces champagne champagne | | Mix Mix sugar sugar and and lime lime juice juice in in a a glass glass ; ; add add mint mint and and muddle muddle until until mint mint is is broken broken down down . . Add Add sparkling sparkling water water and and ice ice cubes cubes . . Mix Mix rum rum and and champagne champagne into into the the drink drink . 
2 yellow yellow onions onions , , quartered quartered 2 2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) links links chorizo chorizo sausage sausage , , casings casings removed removed 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , quartered quartered and and seeded seeded 6 6 cloves cloves clove clove garlic garlic 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 cup cup Italian-style Italian-style bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ketchup ketchup 1 1 dash dash ground ground cumin cumin sea sea salt salt to to taste taste freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 12 12 hamburger hamburger buns buns , , split split 1 1 ( ( 9 9 ounce ounce ) ) can can shoestring shoestring potatoes potatoes ( ( such such as as Pik-Nik® Pik-Nik® ) ) | | Place Place yellow yellow onions onions , , chorizo chorizo , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic in in a a food food processor processor ; ; pulse pulse until until minced minced . . Transfer Transfer onion onion mixture mixture to to a a large large bowl bowl . . Add Add ground ground beef beef , , ground ground pork pork , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , eggs eggs , , ketchup ketchup , , cumin cumin , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper ; ; mix mix with with your your hands hands until until well-blended well-blended . . Form Form mixture mixture into into 12 12 patties patties . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook patties patties in in batches batches until until browned browned and and medium medium well well done done , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Serve Serve cooked cooked patties patties on on hamburger hamburger buns buns topped topped with with shoestring shoestring potatoes potatoes . 
1 packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch freshly freshly cracked cracked black black pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 pounds pounds untrimmed untrimmed skirt skirt steak steak , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 2 2 red red bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 1 1 large large onion onion , , diced diced 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Sprinkle Sprinkle sazon sazon seasoning seasoning and and black black pepper pepper over over steaks steaks ; ; rub rub in in lightly lightly with with your your fingers fingers . . Arrange Arrange steaks steaks close close together together , , but but not not overlapping overlapping , , in in a a large large casserole casserole dish dish . . Mix Mix green green bell bell peppers peppers , , red red bell bell peppers peppers , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Spoon Spoon over over steaks steaks in in the the casserole casserole dish dish . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until peppers peppers are are soft soft and and steaks steaks are are cooked cooked through through , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours . 
1 large large green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 large large red red bell bell pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 10 10 sweet sweet chile chile peppers peppers ( ( ajicitos ajicitos dulces dulces ) ) , , seeded seeded 1 1 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , quartered quartered 1 1 bunch bunch scallions scallions , , trimmed trimmed 2 2 plum plum tomatoes tomatoes , , seeded seeded 25 25 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and trimmed trimmed 2 2 bunches bunches fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , ends ends trimmed trimmed 2 2 bunches bunches culantro culantro 1/4 1/4 cup cup pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives 5 5 large large leaves leaves Caribbean Caribbean wild wild oregano oregano ( ( oregano oregano brujo brujo ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , or or more more as as needed needed 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water | | Set Set oven oven rack rack about about 6 6 inches inches from from the the heat heat source source and and preheat preheat the the oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Cut Cut green green bell bell pepper pepper and and red red bell bell pepper pepper in in half half from from top top to to bottom bottom ; ; remove remove the the stem stem , , seeds seeds , , and and ribs ribs . . Place Place peppers peppers cut cut sides sides down down onto onto the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Lightly Lightly brush brush with with 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil . . Roast Roast under under the the preheated preheated broiler broiler until until the the skin skin of of the the peppers peppers has has blackened blackened and and blistered blistered , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Seal Seal to to let let peppers peppers steam steam as as they they cool cool , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skins skins under under running running water water and and discard discard . . Chop Chop flesh flesh into into large large pieces pieces . . Place Place pepper pepper pieces pieces , , sweet sweet chile chile peppers peppers , , onion onion , , scallions scallions , , tomatoes tomatoes , , garlic garlic , , cilantro cilantro , , culantro culantro , , olives olives , , oregano oregano , , and and capers capers in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor . . Blend Blend , , adding adding 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil and and water water in in batches batches , , until until mixture mixture is is pureed pureed but but some some chunks chunks remain remain . . Divide Divide blended blended mixture mixture among among four four 16-ounce 16-ounce containers containers , , filling filling each each 3/4 3/4 of of the the way way . . Top Top each each with with 2 2 to to 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil to to help help preserve preserve mixture mixture . . Close Close containers containers and and refrigerate refrigerate . 
1 small small potato potato , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup sweet sweet corn corn kernels kernels 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sofrito sofrito 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can corned corned beef beef salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a small small pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add potato potato and and cook cook uncovered uncovered until until slightly slightly tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain in in a a colander colander . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add drained drained potatoes potatoes , , corn corn , , sofrito sofrito , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add tomato tomato sauce sauce , , oregano oregano , , and and bay bay leaf leaf ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until flavors flavors combine combine , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add water water and and bring bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-low medium-low ; ; stir stir in in corned corned beef beef . . Cook Cook until until heated heated through through , , 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . 
2 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages fresh fresh cranberries cranberries 1 1 orange orange , , zested zested 3 3 cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks 2 2 cups cups orange orange juice juice 2 2 cups cups packed packed brown brown sugar sugar | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine cranberries cranberries , , orange orange zest zest , , cinnamon cinnamon , , orange orange juice juice , , and and brown brown sugar sugar . . Add Add enough enough water water to to cover cover , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Immediately Immediately reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer for for about about 1 1 hour hour , , or or until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened . . Taste Taste for for sweetness sweetness , , and and adjust adjust with with additional additional sugar sugar if if necessary necessary . . You You can can not not overcook overcook , , so so continue continue cooking cooking until until you you have have a a good good thick thick consistency consistency . . Let Let mixture mixture cool cool , , then then refrigerate refrigerate in in a a covered covered container container . 
2 pounds pounds goat goat stew stew meat meat , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes 2 2 fresh fresh hot hot chile chile peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 rib rib celery celery , , chopped chopped 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups vegetable vegetable broth broth 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 3 3 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch chunks chunks , , or or more more as as desired desired | | Combine Combine goat goat meat meat , , chile chile pepper pepper , , curry curry powder powder , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate to to allow allow flavors flavors to to blend blend , , 1 1 hour hour to to overnight overnight . . Remove Remove goat goat meat meat mixture mixture from from bowl bowl and and pat pat dry dry , , reserving reserving marinade marinade . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a stockpot stockpot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook meat meat in in batches batches , , browning browning on on all all sides sides , , 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes per per batch batch . . Transfer Transfer meat meat to to a a plate plate . . Add Add onion onion and and celery celery to to the the stockpot stockpot ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion begins begins to to brown brown , , 4 4 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir browned browned goat goat meat meat into into onion onion mixture mixture . . Add Add reserved reserved marinade marinade , , vegetable vegetable broth broth , , and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , cover cover , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 hour hour . . Stir Stir in in potatoes potatoes ; ; simmer simmer until until potatoes potatoes and and meat meat are are tender tender , , 35 35 to to 45 45 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove stockpot stockpot from from heat heat , , skim skim off off surface surface fat fat , , and and remove remove bay bay leaf leaf . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups vino vino seco seco ( ( white white cooking cooking wine wine ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 4 4 pounds pounds beef beef oxtails oxtails 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and quartered quartered 2 2 cups cups diced diced onion onion 1 1 cup cup diced diced carrots carrots 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup green green olives olives , , pitted pitted and and halved halved 3 3 bay bay leaves leaves 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Miami-style Miami-style sazon sazon seasoning seasoning ( ( sazon sazon completa completa ) ) 1/2 1/2 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning ( ( such such as as Sa-Son Sa-Son Accent® Accent® ) ) 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon allspice allspice 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 3 3 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth | | Whisk Whisk vino vino seco seco , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , and and salt salt together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Add Add oxtails oxtails and and mix mix well well to to coat coat . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 12 12 hours hours . . Drain Drain oxtails oxtails , , discarding discarding all all but but 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the marinade marinade . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat and and sear sear oxtails oxtails until until browned browned on on all all sides sides , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer to to a a large large plate plate . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in the the same same pot pot . . Saute Saute potatoes potatoes , , onion onion , , and and carrots carrots until until onions onions are are translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mash Mash garlic garlic and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt into into a a coarse coarse paste paste in in a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle . . Add Add garlic garlic paste paste to to the the pot pot ; ; stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir in in green green olives olives , , bay bay leaves leaves , , sazon sazon completa completa , , sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , and and allspice allspice . . Pour Pour in in reserved reserved marinade marinade , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and chicken chicken broth broth . . Return Return oxtails oxtails to to the the pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer , , covered covered , , until until oxtails oxtails are are fork fork tender tender and and falling falling off off the the bone bone , , about about 4 4 hours hours . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cream cream of of coconut coconut 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 cup cup coconut-flavored coconut-flavored rum rum ( ( such such as as Bacardi® Bacardi® ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1 1 scoop scoop vanilla vanilla bean bean ice ice cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks 2 2 whole whole cloves cloves 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cinnamon cinnamon ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Place Place cream cream of of coconut coconut , , condensed condensed milk milk , , evaporated evaporated milk milk , , coconut coconut rum rum , , water water , , ice ice cream cream , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a blender blender . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth and and well-combined well-combined , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour coconut coconut mixture mixture into into two two 20-ounce 20-ounce glass glass bottles bottles or or jars jars . . Add Add 1 1 cinnamon cinnamon stick stick and and 1 1 clove clove to to each each container container ; ; shake shake well well . . Chill Chill coquito coquito 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Shake Shake container container before before pouring pouring coquito coquito into into shot shot glasses glasses or or small small cups cups . . Sprinkle Sprinkle cinnamon cinnamon or or nutmeg nutmeg on on top top before before serving serving . 
4 cups cups coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups coconut coconut cream cream 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1 1 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon orange orange blossom blossom water water 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime zest zest 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cinnamon cinnamon , , or or to to taste taste | | Combine Combine coconut coconut milk milk , , coconut coconut cream cream , , evaporated evaporated milk milk , , cinnamon cinnamon , , nutmeg nutmeg , , and and ginger ginger in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Mix Mix milk milk and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a bowl bowl until until dissolved dissolved ; ; stir stir into into coconut coconut milk milk mixture mixture . . Add Add sugar sugar , , vanilla vanilla extract extract , , orange orange blossom blossom water water , , salt salt , , and and lime lime zest zest to to coconut coconut milk milk mixture mixture ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , over over medium medium heat heat until until simmering simmering and and mixture mixture begins begins to to thicken thicken , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and cook cook until until thickened thickened , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove saucepan saucepan from from heat heat , , pour pour mixture mixture into into a a deep deep 9-inch 9-inch cake cake pan pan , , and and cool cool to to room room temperature temperature , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover pan pan with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate until until tembleque tembleque is is chilled chilled , , at at least least 4 4 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Remove Remove tembleque tembleque from from refrigerator refrigerator and and allow allow to to sit sit at at room room temperature temperature , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Dip Dip bottom bottom of of pan pan in in a a bowl bowl of of warm warm water water for for 1 1 minute minute . . Carefully Carefully separate separate tembleque tembleque from from pan pan by by running running a a thin thin knife knife around around the the edges edges . . Place Place a a serving serving dish dish on on top top of of pan pan and and invert invert tembleque tembleque onto onto dish dish ; ; garnish garnish with with cinnamon cinnamon . 
1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 pound pound shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 2 2 pounds pounds swai swai fish fish 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon mustard mustard 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Mix Mix onion onion and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1/2 1/2 of of the the cheese cheese mixture mixture into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish ; ; top top with with swai swai fish fish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the remaining remaining cheese cheese mixture mixture over over fish fish . . Whisk Whisk milk milk , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , mustard mustard , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over fish fish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork and and the the cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . 
3 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup cornmeal cornmeal 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon baking baking powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 pinch pinch freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can water water 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 egg egg , , slightly slightly beaten beaten 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Whisk Whisk sugar sugar , , flour flour , , cornmeal cornmeal , , baking baking powder powder , , cornstarch cornstarch , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and nutmeg nutmeg together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add coconut coconut milk milk and and evaporated evaporated milk milk ; ; fill fill empty empty cans cans with with water water ( ( totaling totaling 26 26 fluid fluid ounces ounces ) ) and and add add to to mixture mixture . . Mix Mix butter butter , , egg egg , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract into into mixture mixture and and beat beat with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until well well mixed mixed ; ; pour pour into into the the prepared prepared dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cornbread cornbread is is cooked cooked through through and and set set , , 1 1 hour hour 30 30 minutes minutes . 
2 cups cups chopped chopped seedless seedless watermelon watermelon 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped scallions scallions 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh pineapple pineapple 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh mango mango 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Toss Toss watermelon watermelon , , scallions scallions , , pineapple pineapple , , mango mango , , cilantro cilantro , , and and lime lime juice juice together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork sirloin sirloin roast roast ( ( trimmed trimmed and and tied tied with with kitchen kitchen twine twine , , if if necessary necessary ) ) 1 1 cup cup orange orange juice juice 4 4 limes limes , , juiced juiced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed and and divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons coarse coarse salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Use Use a a sharp sharp knife knife to to poke poke 3 3 to to 5 5 holes holes into into the the pork pork roast roast . . Stuff Stuff about about half half the the garlic garlic into into the the holes holes . . Cook Cook roast roast in in hot hot oil oil to to brown brown completely completely , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer roast roast to to the the crock crock of of a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Blend Blend orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice , , remaining remaining garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , salt salt , , and and oregano oregano in in a a blender blender until until smooth smooth ; ; pour pour over over the the pork pork . . Leave Leave the the pork pork marinating marinating in in the the orange orange juice juice mixture mixture for for 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; turn turn roast roast and and let let other other side side marinate marinate for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn slow slow cooker cooker to to Low Low and and cook cook for for 8 8 hours hours . . Remove Remove pork pork to to a a cutting cutting board board . . Shred Shred meat meat using using 2 2 forks forks . . Drain Drain liquid liquid from from the the slow slow cooker cooker crock crock , , reserving reserving 1 1 cup cup . . Return Return shredded shredded pork pork to to the the slow slow cooker cooker crock crock , , pour pour reserved reserved liquid liquid over over the the meat meat and and stir stir . . Look Look on on Low Low until until the the meat meat is is again again hot hot , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
4 cloves cloves garlic garlic 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons white white wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast | | Grind Grind garlic garlic , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , and and coriander coriander into into a a paste paste using using a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle . . Transfer Transfer half half of of the the garlic garlic and and spice spice paste paste to to a a bowl bowl ; ; add add lime lime juice juice , , orange orange juice juice , , olive olive oil oil , , and and vinegar vinegar . . Beat Beat the the mixture mixture with with a a whisk whisk until until smooth smooth . . Cut Cut several several inch-long inch-long , , deep deep slits slits into into the the fatty fatty side side of of the the pork pork roast roast . . Rub Rub the the reserved reserved garlic garlic paste paste into into the the slits slits . . Put Put rubbed rubbed roast roast into into a a gallon-size gallon-size resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Pour Pour the the liquid liquid mixture mixture over over the the roast roast , , squeeze squeeze as as much much air air from from the the bag bag as as possible possible and and seal seal ; ; refrigerate refrigerate , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Remove Remove pork pork roast roast from from refrigerator refrigerator , , put put into into a a roasting roasting pan pan , , and and let let warm warm at at room room temperature temperature for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Roast Roast pork pork in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , reduce reduce heat heat to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , and and continue continue cooking cooking until until pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 2 2 hours hours more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 170 170 degrees degrees F F ( ( 75 75 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds boneless boneless country-style country-style pork pork ribs ribs , , cut cut into into small small pieces pieces 1 1 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine , , divided divided 2 2 cups cups water water 10 10 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste , , divided divided 2 2 cubes cubes beef beef bouillon bouillon ( ( such such as as Knorr® Knorr® ) ) 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 links links Spanish Spanish chorizo chorizo sausage sausage ( ( such such as as Goya® Goya® ) ) , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 small small green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives 4 4 cups cups frozen frozen corn corn , , thawed thawed 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups masa masa harina harina 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried corn corn husks husks , , soaked soaked in in warm warm water water kitchen kitchen twine twine , , cut cut into into 12-inch 12-inch lengths lengths | | Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil in in large large saucepan saucepan or or Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir pork pork in in hot hot oil oil until until lightly lightly browned browned , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine into into saucepan saucepan and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping the the browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Stir Stir 2 2 cups cups water water , , 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste , , 1 1 beef beef bouillon bouillon cube cube , , bay bay leaves leaves , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , and and black black pepper pepper to to pork pork mixture mixture . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , partially partially cover cover the the saucepan saucepan with with a a lid lid , , and and simmer simmer until until pork pork is is very very tender tender , , 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Transfer Transfer pork pork to to a a bowl bowl and and reserve reserve cooking cooking liquid liquid . . Heat Heat remaining remaining olive olive oil oil in in a a deep deep pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir chorizo chorizo and and cooked cooked pork pork in in hot hot oil oil until until lightly lightly browned browned , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir onion onion , , green green pepper pepper , , and and remaining remaining minced minced garlic garlic into into chorizo chorizo mixture mixture ; ; saute saute until until vegetables vegetables soften soften and and onion onion is is translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add remaining remaining white white wine wine , , olives olives , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste , , and and remaining remaining bouillon bouillon cube cube ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Pulse Pulse corn corn and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups reserved reserved pork pork broth broth together together in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor until until mixture mixture has has a a thick thick and and chunky chunky consistency consistency . . Stir Stir corn corn mixture mixture into into pork-chorizo pork-chorizo mixture mixture . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and stir stir masa masa harina harina , , sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , and and salt salt into into pork pork mixture mixture ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until mixture mixture has has a a hearty hearty cornmeal cornmeal porridge-consistency porridge-consistency . . Season Season with with salt salt and and remove remove from from heat heat . . Make Make a a pocket pocket out out of of one one corn corn husk husk and and fill fill 3/4 3/4 full full with with pork pork mixture mixture , , leaving leaving a a top top flap flap . . Wrap Wrap another another husk husk around around the the filled filled pocket pocket . . Fold Fold top top flap flap over over the the pocket pocket . . Tie Tie twine twine length- length- and and width-wise width-wise around around the the tamale tamale several several times times so so that that packet packet is is secure secure , , but but has has room room for for filling filling to to expand expand during during cooking cooking . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining husks husks and and filling filling . . Fill Fill a a pot pot with with 2-inches 2-inches of of water water ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer . . Place Place tamales tamales upright upright in in simmering simmering water water , , cover cover the the pot pot , , and and cook cook , , adding adding water water as as necessary necessary , , until until filling filling is is hot hot and and set set , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool tamales tamales until until completely completely set set , , at at least least 3 3 hours hours . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups thinly thinly sliced sliced white white onions onions 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 4 4 cups cups seeded seeded , , chopped chopped plum plum tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups dry dry white white wine wine 2/3 2/3 cup cup sliced sliced stuffed stuffed green green olives olives 1/4 1/4 cup cup drained drained capers capers 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 4 4 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets sea sea bass bass 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute onions onions until until soft soft . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic , , and and saute saute about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add tomatoes tomatoes , , and and cook cook until until they they begin begin to to soften soften . . Stir Stir in in wine wine , , olives olives , , capers capers , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Heat Heat to to a a simmer simmer . . Place Place sea sea bass bass into into sauce sauce . . Cover Cover , , and and gently gently simmer simmer for for 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes , , or or until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork . . Transfer Transfer fish fish to to a a serving serving plate plate , , and and keep keep warm warm . . Increase Increase the the heat heat , , and and add add butter butter to to sauce sauce . . Simmer Simmer until until the the sauce sauce thickens thickens . . Stir Stir in in cilantro cilantro . . Serve Serve sauce sauce over over fish fish . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground turmeric turmeric | | Whisk Whisk garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , and and turmeric turmeric together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Store Store in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons onion onion powder powder 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried thyme thyme 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground allspice allspice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cracked cracked black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons turbinado turbinado sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons sea sea salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried marjoram marjoram ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried sage sage ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried rosemary rosemary ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Whisk Whisk onion onion powder powder , , thyme thyme , , allspice allspice , , black black pepper pepper , , turbinado turbinado sugar sugar , , garlic garlic powder powder , , sea sea salt salt , , ginger ginger , , cinnamon cinnamon , , nutmeg nutmeg , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , marjoram marjoram , , sage sage , , and and rosemary rosemary together together in in a a bowl bowl . 
1 large large onion onion , , cut cut into into rings rings 2 2 pounds pounds flank flank steak steak , , cut cut into into thirds thirds 2 2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf | | Spread Spread a a layer layer of of onions onions in in the the bottom bottom of of a a slow slow cooker cooker , , top top with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the steak steak . . Spread Spread another another layer layer of of onions onions over over steak steak and and pour pour 1 1 can can of of diced diced tomatoes tomatoes over over onions onions ; ; top top with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the garlic garlic . . Repeat Repeat layers layers with with remaining remaining onion onion , , steak steak , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and garlic garlic . . Gently Gently pour pour beef beef broth broth over over steak steak mixture mixture and and add add bay bay leaf leaf . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 8 8 to to 10 10 hours hours . . Shred Shred beef beef and and return return to to slow slow cooker cooker ; ; stir stir mixture mixture together together until until meat meat absorbs absorbs some some of of the the broth broth , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package gingersnap gingersnap cookies cookies , , crumbled crumbled 3 3 ounces ounces butter butter , , melted melted 1/2 1/2 pint pint heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 3 3 lemons lemons , , zested zested and and juiced juiced | | Mix Mix cookie cookie crumbs crumbs and and melted melted butter butter in in a a bowl bowl until until all all crumbs crumbs are are moistened moistened ; ; press press firmly firmly into into a a single single layer layer in in the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish . . Refrigerate Refrigerate dish dish until until the the crust crust is is set set , , at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes . . Beat Beat cream cream in in a a chilled chilled glass glass or or metal metal bowl bowl with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until soft soft peaks peaks form form . . Stir Stir condensed condensed milk milk into into the the cream cream until until smooth smooth and and thick thick ; ; add add lemon lemon zest zest and and juice juice and and stir stir . . Spread Spread the the creamy creamy mixture mixture over over the the cookie cookie crust crust . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until the the cream cream layer layer is is set set , , at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes . 
2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans coconut coconut milk milk 3/4 3/4 cup cup sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cinnamon cinnamon | | Stir Stir coconut coconut milk milk , , sugar sugar , , and and salt salt together together in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Spoon Spoon a a few few tablespoons tablespoons of of the the coconut coconut milk milk mixture mixture into into a a small small bowl bowl and and stir stir cornstarch cornstarch into into the the mixture mixture to to dissolve dissolve ; ; pour pour into into the the mixture mixture in in the the saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring the the mixture mixture to to a a boil boil while while stirring stirring constantly constantly ; ; cook cook until until smooth smooth and and thick thick , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the coconut coconut milk milk mixture mixture into into molds molds , , cover cover each each with with plastic plastic wrap wrap , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until cold cold and and firm firm , , 3 3 hours hours to to 2 2 days days . . Run Run a a thin thin knife knife around around the the edges edges of of the the mold mold and and invert invert onto onto a a plate plate to to remove remove putting putting . . Garnish Garnish tops tops with with cinnamon cinnamon . 
Dressing : : 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 carrot carrot , , shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded cabbage cabbage 4 4 slices slices Hass Hass avocado avocado | | Whisk Whisk olive olive oil oil and and lime lime juice juice together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add carrots carrots and and cabbage cabbage and and stir stir to to coat coat . . Gently Gently fold fold avocado avocado slices slices into into salad salad . 
2 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) cans cans evaporated evaporated milk milk 2 2 cups cups white white rum rum 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon , , plus plus more more for for dusting dusting 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can unsweetened unsweetened coconut coconut cream cream | | Blend Blend evaporated evaporated milk milk , , rum rum , , cream cream of of coconut coconut , , sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk , , coconut coconut milk milk , , water water , , nutmeg nutmeg , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cinnamon cinnamon , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a blender blender at at high high speed speed until until creamy creamy , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes ; ; pour pour into into a a glass glass pitcher pitcher . . Refrigerate Refrigerate coquito coquito until until chilled chilled , , at at least least 20 20 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour into into glasses glasses and and dust dust with with cinnamon cinnamon . 
3 slices slices 1/4-inch-thick 1/4-inch-thick slices slices cucumber cucumber 8 8 leaves leaves basil basil , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 lime lime slices slices 2 2 ( ( 1.5 1.5 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) jiggers jiggers rum rum 2 2 raw raw sugar sugar cubes cubes ice ice cubes cubes as as desired desired 1 1 splash splash club club soda soda ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cucumber cucumber wedge wedge for for garnish garnish 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh basil basil for for garnish garnish | | Put Put cucumbers cucumbers , , basil basil leaves leaves , , lime lime slices slices , , rum rum , , and and raw raw sugar sugar cubes cubes into into a a metal metal cocktail cocktail shaker shaker . . Mash Mash mixture mixture together together with with a a muddler muddler until until the the sugar sugar cubes cubes have have dissolved dissolved . . Add Add ice ice , , place place lid lid onto onto the the shaker shaker , , and and shake shake vigorously vigorously ; ; strain strain into into a a chilled chilled glass glass tumbler tumbler filled filled with with ice ice . . Top Top cocktail cocktail with with club club soda soda and and garnish garnish with with cucumber cucumber wedge wedge and and basil basil sprig sprig . 
1/4 cup cup curry curry powder powder , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon seasoned seasoned salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme , , leaves leaves stripped stripped 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground allspice allspice , , or or more more to to taste taste salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 1/4 1/4 pounds pounds whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 potato potato , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped carrots carrots 2 2 scallions scallions ( ( green green onions onions ) ) , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , minced minced 1 1 Scotch Scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped , , or or to to taste taste | | Whisk Whisk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , onion onion powder powder , , salt salt , , thyme thyme leaves leaves , , allspice allspice , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add chicken chicken and and coat coat with with curry curry mixture mixture until until curry curry mixture mixture is is wet wet and and sticks sticks to to chicken chicken . . Heat Heat oil oil and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder in in a a large large cast-iron cast-iron skillet skillet over over high high heat heat until until oil oil is is hot hot and and curry curry powder powder changes changes color color , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add chicken chicken to to the the hot hot oil oil mixture mixture and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Add Add water water , , potato potato , , carrots carrots , , scallions scallions , , ginger ginger , , and and chile chile pepper pepper to to skillet skillet . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and gravy gravy is is thickened thickened , , allowing allowing chicken chicken to to cook cook undisturbed undisturbed for for last last 15 15 minutes minutes of of cooking cooking , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone , , should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove chicken chicken to to a a serving serving dish dish ; ; continue continue simmering simmering gravy gravy , , uncovered uncovered , , to to thicken thicken ( ( if if needed needed ) ) . . Serve Serve chicken chicken with with gravy gravy . 
1 pound pound dried dried black black beans beans 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon smoked smoked paprika paprika 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin seeds seeds 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 8 8 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried Mexican Mexican oregano oregano , , crushed crushed between between your your fingers fingers 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 6 6 cups cups vegetable vegetable stock stock 1 1 cup cup diced diced smoked smoked tempeh tempeh bacon bacon ( ( such such as as Lightlife® Lightlife® Organic Organic Smoky Smoky Tempeh Tempeh Strips® Strips® ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark rum rum ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 jalapeño jalapeño pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped red red onion onion | | Place Place black black beans beans into into a a large large container container and and cover cover with with several several inches inches of of cool cool water water ; ; let let stand stand 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Drain Drain beans beans and and rinse rinse with with fresh fresh water water . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large Dutch Dutch oven oven or or stockpot stockpot over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir yellow yellow onion onion , , paprika paprika , , and and cumin cumin seeds seeds until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add red red bell bell pepper pepper , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , and and bay bay leaves leaves ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion is is translucent translucent and and bell bell peppers peppers are are tender tender , , 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix vegetable vegetable stock stock , , black black beans beans , , tempeh tempeh , , rum rum , , and and jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper into into onion onion mixture mixture . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium-high medium-high , , bring bring to to a a simmer simmer , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and cook cook until until beans beans are are tender tender , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour water water into into bean bean mixture mixture ; ; season season with with 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until beans beans begin begin to to fall fall apart apart and and soup soup thickens thickens , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Remove Remove and and discard discard bay bay leaves leaves from from soup soup . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into bowls bowls and and garnish garnish with with hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs and and red red onion onion . 
1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces rum rum 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground clove clove 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme leaves leaves 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine the the lime lime juice juice , , rum rum , , and and brown brown sugar sugar ; ; set set aside aside . . Mix Mix together together the the cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , clove clove , , cinnamon cinnamon , , ginger ginger , , pepper pepper , , salt salt , , and and thyme thyme leaves leaves . . Brush Brush the the chicken chicken with with oil oil , , then then coat coat with with the the spice spice mixture mixture . . Place Place in in a a roasting roasting pan pan , , and and bake bake about about 90 90 minutes minutes , , until until the the juices juices run run clear clear or or until until a a meat meat thermometer thermometer inserted inserted in in thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh reaches reaches 180 180 degrees degrees F F . . Baste Baste the the chicken chicken with with the the sauce sauce every every 20 20 minutes minutes while while it it 's 's cooking cooking . . Allow Allow chicken chicken to to rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before carving carving . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon avocado avocado oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef sirloin sirloin tip tip roast roast 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can fire-roasted fire-roasted diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 2 2 onions onions , , sliced sliced 3 3 bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and sliced sliced into into strips strips 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat avocado avocado oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook beef beef roast roast in in the the hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer roast roast to to a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour tomatoes tomatoes and and beef beef broth broth over over roast roast ; ; add add onions onions and and bell bell peppers peppers . . Mix Mix tomato tomato paste paste , , garlic garlic , , olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , cumin cumin , , and and salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over onions onions and and bell bell peppers peppers . . Cook Cook on on High High for for 1 1 hour hour . . Decrease Decrease heat heat to to Low Low and and cook cook until until beef beef is is tender tender enough enough to to shred shred , , about about 8 8 hours hours . . Remove Remove beef beef from from slow slow cooker cooker and and shred shred on on a a work work surface surface using using 2 2 forks forks . . Return Return shredded shredded beef beef to to slow slow cooker cooker ; ; add add cilantro cilantro and and stir stir . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 1 1 hour hour more more . 
2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons curry curry powder powder 1 1 dash dash salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine 1/4 1/4 cup cup shortening shortening 1/3 1/3 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons margarine margarine 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 small small onion onion , , finely finely diced diced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine flour flour , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons curry curry powder powder , , and and pinch pinch of of salt salt . . Cut Cut in in 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine and and shortening shortening until until mixture mixture resembles resembles coarse coarse crumbs crumbs . . Stir Stir in in water water until until mixture mixture forms forms a a ball ball . . Shape Shape dough dough into into a a log log , , and and cut cut into into 10 10 equal equal sections sections . . Roll Roll each each section section into into a a six six inch inch circle circle ( ( approximately approximately 1/8 1/8 inch inch thick thick ) ) . . Set Set aside aside . . Melt Melt margarine margarine in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute onion onion until until soft soft and and translucent translucent . . Stir Stir in in ground ground beef beef . . Season Season with with 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder , , thyme thyme , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook until until beef beef is is evenly evenly brown brown , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Stir Stir in in beef beef broth broth and and bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Simmer Simmer until until liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Spoon Spoon equal equal amounts amounts of of filling filling into into each each pastry pastry circle circle . . Fold Fold over over and and press press edges edges together together , , making making a a half half circle circle . . Use Use a a fork fork to to press press edges edges , , and and brush brush the the top top of of each each patty patty with with beaten beaten egg egg . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 ( ( 15.25 15.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can kidney kidney beans beans , , drained drained with with liquid liquid reserved reserved 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper and and garlic garlic . . When When onion onion is is translucent translucent add add salt salt and and tomato tomato paste paste . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the beans beans and and rice rice . . Pour Pour the the liquid liquid from from the the beans beans into into a a large large measuring measuring cup cup and and add add enough enough water water to to reach reach a a volume volume of of 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups ; ; pour pour into into beans beans . . Cover Cover and and cook cook on on low low for for 45 45 to to 50 50 minutes minutes , , or or until until liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed and and rice rice is is cooked cooked . 
4 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 large large onion onion , , quartered quartered 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground ancho ancho chile chile pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork loin loin roast roast 1 1 lime lime , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Place Place the the garlic garlic , , onion onion , , oregano oregano , , cumin cumin , , chile chile pepper pepper , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper into into a a blender blender . . Pour Pour in in the the olive olive oil oil and and vinegar vinegar . . Puree Puree until until smooth smooth . . Spread Spread this this mixture mixture all all over over the the pork pork loin loin , , and and place place into into a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Cook Cook on on Low Low until until the the pork pork is is fork fork tender tender , , 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours . . When When ready ready , , cut cut the the pork pork into into chunks chunks , , or or shred shred ; ; garnish garnish with with lime lime wedges wedges to to serve serve . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch cubes cubes 1 1 pound pound pork pork , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch squares squares 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers 1/4 1/4 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , pressed pressed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , or or to to taste taste | | Mix Mix sweet sweet potatoes potatoes , , pork pork , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers , , orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 6 6 hours hours . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sirloin sirloin tips tips , , cubed cubed 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives 1/4 1/4 cup cup raisins raisins 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers 4 4 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and quartered quartered salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | In In a a large large saute saute pan pan , , heat heat oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook onion onion and and garlic garlic in in oil oil , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until transparent transparent . . Stir Stir in in cubed cubed meat meat , , and and cook cook until until browned browned . . Stir Stir in in red red bell bell pepper pepper , , bay bay leaf leaf , , cumin cumin , , and and oregano oregano ; ; cook cook for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in sherry sherry , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , olives olives , , raisins raisins , , and and capers capers . . Pour Pour in in enough enough water water to to just just cover cover meat meat . . Bring Bring to to boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and cover cover . . Simmer Simmer until until fork fork tender tender , , about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Add Add more more water water if if the the stew stew becomes becomes too too thick thick . . Stir Stir potatoes potatoes into into the the stew stew . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Cook Cook , , covered covered , , until until potatoes potatoes are are almost almost tender tender . . Uncover Uncover , , and and cook cook until until done done . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can canned canned tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup sofrito sofrito sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon adobo adobo seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef stew stew meat meat 2 2 cups cups peeled peeled , , cubed cubed potatoes potatoes 1 1 cup cup water water | | In In a a large large pot pot , , combine combine tomato tomato sauce sauce , , sofrito sofrito sauce sauce , , sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , adobo adobo seasoning seasoning , , oregano oregano , , and and salt salt . . Simmer Simmer over over medium medium low low heat heat for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add meat meat , , and and cook cook until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Stir Stir in in just just enough enough water water to to cover cover meat meat . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer for for about about 1 1 hour hour . . Add Add potatoes potatoes , , and and cook cook for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender . 
1 pound pound chicken chicken drumsticks drumsticks 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon adobo adobo seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 5 5 large large red red potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and thickly thickly sliced sliced 1 1 large large red red bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 large large green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry red red wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 fresh fresh or or dried dried bay bay leaves leaves | | Wash Wash the the chicken chicken and and pat pat dry dry ; ; place place into into a a large large bowl bowl . . Season Season with with adobo adobo seasoning seasoning , , sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , and and salt salt . . Place Place the the legs legs into into a a slow slow cooker cooker , , and and cover cover with with the the potato potato slices slices . . Puree Puree the the red red pepper pepper , , green green pepper pepper , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , cilantro cilantro , , olive olive oil oil , , wine wine , , cumin cumin , , and and oregano oregano in in a a blender blender . . Pour Pour over over the the chicken chicken and and add add the the bay bay leaves leaves . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours , , until until the the chicken chicken is is easily easily removed removed from from the the bone bone . 
1 pound pound black black beans beans , , washed washed 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 medium medium green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and minced minced 5 5 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar diced diced pimentos pimentos , , drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper | | Place Place beans beans in in a a large large saucepan saucepan with with enough enough water water to to cover cover , , and and soak soak 8 8 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , and and saute saute onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic until until tender tender . . Into Into the the onion onion mixture mixture , , stir stir the the drained drained beans beans , , water water , , tomato tomato paste paste , , pimentos pimentos , , and and vinegar vinegar . . Season Season with with salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Cover Cover , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until beans beans are are tender tender . 
2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon nutmeg nutmeg 2 2 ripe ripe bananas bananas , , mashed mashed 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup unsweetened unsweetened applesauce applesauce 1 1 cup cup packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups grated grated zucchini zucchini 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped walnuts walnuts 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded coconut coconut | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour 2 2 9x5-inch 9x5-inch loaf loaf pans pans . . Whisk Whisk the the all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , whole whole wheat wheat flour flour , , salt salt , , baking baking soda soda , , baking baking powder powder , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and nutmeg nutmeg together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Beat Beat the the bananas bananas , , eggs eggs , , vegetable vegetable oil oil , , applesauce applesauce , , brown brown sugar sugar , , white white sugar sugar , , and and vanilla vanilla together together in in a a separate separate large large bowl bowl . . Stir Stir the the flour flour mixture mixture into into the the wet wet mixture mixture . . Fold Fold the the zucchini zucchini , , walnuts walnuts , , and and coconut coconut into into the the batter batter until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Pour Pour into into the the prepared prepared pans pans . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , 40 40 to to 50 50 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool in in the the pans pans for for 25 25 minutes minutes before before removing removing to to cool cool completely completely on on a a wire wire rack rack . 
2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/2 1/2 cup cup teriyaki teriyaki marinade marinade sauce sauce 2 2 tomatoes tomatoes , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1/4 1/4 cup cup Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 1/4 1/4 cup cup honey honey 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons cider cider vinegar vinegar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime juice juice 3/4 3/4 pound pound mixed mixed salad salad greens greens 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , drained drained 4 4 cups cups corn corn tortilla tortilla chips chips | | Place Place the the chicken chicken in in a a bowl bowl , , and and cover cover with with the the teriyaki teriyaki marinade marinade sauce sauce . . Marinate Marinate at at least least 2 2 hours hours in in the the refrigerator refrigerator . . In In a a small small bowl bowl mix mix the the tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , and and cilantro cilantro . . Cover Cover salsa salsa , , and and refrigerate refrigerate . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix the the mustard mustard , , honey honey , , sugar sugar , , oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , and and lime lime juice juice . . Cover Cover dressing dressing , , and and refrigerate refrigerate . . Preheat Preheat the the grill grill for for high high heat heat . . Lightly Lightly oil oil grill grill grate grate . . Place Place chicken chicken on on the the grill grill , , and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Cook Cook for for 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , or or until until juices juices run run clear clear . . Arrange Arrange mixed mixed salad salad greens greens on on plates plates . . Spoon Spoon some some of of the the salsa salsa over over each each salad salad , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with 1/4 1/4 of of the the pineapple pineapple chunks chunks . . Break Break tortilla tortilla chips chips into into large large chunks chunks , , and and sprinkle sprinkle over over salads salads . . Lay Lay some some of of the the grilled grilled chicken chicken strips strips on on each each salad salad . . Finally Finally , , drizzle drizzle dressing dressing over over each each salad salad , , and and serve serve . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon fresh fresh ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped green green onion onion ( ( optional optional ) ) salt salt to to taste taste 4 4 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) mahi mahi mahi mahi fillets fillets 2 2 cups cups uncooked uncooked jasmine jasmine rice rice 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 cube cube chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter ( ( optional optional ) ) 3/4 3/4 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups fresh fresh mango mango , , cubed cubed | | Whisk Whisk together together the the olive olive oil oil , , soy soy sauce sauce , , lemon lemon juice juice , , garlic garlic , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , black black pepper pepper , , ginger ginger , , green green onion onion , , and and salt salt in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add the the mahi mahi mahi mahi and and toss toss to to evenly evenly coat coat . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap , , and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 1 1 hour hour . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven 's 's broiler broiler and and set set the the oven oven rack rack in in the the middle middle of of the the oven oven . . Bring Bring the the rice rice , , water water , , chicken chicken bouillon bouillon , , and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the liquid liquid has has been been absorbed absorbed , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the coconut coconut milk milk and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of sugar sugar . . Stir Stir , , and and simmer simmer uncovered uncovered until until the the rice rice has has absorbed absorbed most most of of the the coconut coconut milk milk . . While While the the rice rice is is cooking cooking , , remove remove the the mahi mahi mahi mahi from from the the marinade marinade , , and and shake shake off off excess excess . . Discard Discard the the remaining remaining marinade marinade . . Place Place fish fish in in a a large large baking baking dish dish in in a a single single layer layer . . Broil Broil in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . If If the the fish fish browns browns too too quickly quickly , , cover cover the the baking baking dish dish with with a a sheet sheet of of aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Melt Melt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons of of sugar sugar in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . When When the the mixture mixture begins begins to to bubble bubble , , stir stir in in mango mango cubes cubes . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until mango mango is is tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve by by placing placing a a mahi mahi mahi mahi fillet fillet over over a a scoop scoop of of hot hot rice rice and and top top with with the the mango mango salsa salsa . 
4 sweet sweet bread bread rolls rolls 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1/4 1/4 cup cup prepared prepared mustard mustard 1 1 pound pound thinly thinly sliced sliced cooked cooked ham ham 1 1 pound pound thinly thinly sliced sliced fully fully cooked cooked pork pork 1 1 pound pound sliced sliced Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup dill dill pickle pickle slices slices 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted | | Split Split the the sandwich sandwich rolls rolls in in half half , , and and spread spread mustard mustard and and mayonnaise mayonnaise liberally liberally onto onto the the cut cut sides sides . . On On each each sandwich sandwich , , place place and and equal equal amount amount of of Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , ham ham and and pork pork in in exactly exactly that that order order . . Place Place a a few few pickles pickles onto onto each each one one , , and and put put the the top top of of the the roll roll onto onto the the sandwich sandwich . . Brush Brush the the tops tops with with melted melted butter butter . . Press Press each each sandwich sandwich in in a a sandwich sandwich press press heated heated to to medium-high medium-high heat heat . . If If a a sandwich sandwich press press is is not not available available , , use use a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and press press the the sandwiches sandwiches down down using using a a sturdy sturdy plate plate or or skillet skillet . . Some Some indoor indoor grills grills may may be be good good for for this this also also . . Cook Cook for for 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , keeping keeping sandwiches sandwiches pressed pressed . . If If using using a a skillet skillet , , you you may may want want to to flip flip them them once once for for even even browning browning . . Slice Slice diagonally diagonally and and serve serve hot hot . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 pounds pounds large large cooked cooked shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled , , tails tails on on 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | In In a a large large bowl bowl combine combine oil oil , , ginger ginger , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar and and red red pepper pepper ; ; mix mix well well . . Stir Stir in in shrimp shrimp and and cilantro cilantro . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate 1 1 to to 4 4 hours hours before before serving serving . . Stir Stir occasionally occasionally while while chilling chilling . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped roasted roasted garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , fry fry chicken chicken breast breast in in vegetable vegetable oil oil until until the the chicken chicken just just begins begins to to brown brown . . Stir Stir onions onions , , green green bell bell peppers peppers and and red red bell bell peppers peppers into into the the skillet skillet with with the the chicken chicken . . Saute Saute until until the the onions onions are are translucent translucent . . When When the the vegetables vegetables are are translucent translucent , , stir stir in in the the garlic garlic and and coconut coconut milk milk . . Let Let the the mixture mixture cook cook 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes before before removing removing the the skillet skillet from from the the heat heat . . Season Season with with salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Transfer Transfer the the mixture mixture to to a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish and and bake bake in in a a 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven for for 45 45 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the vegetables vegetables cook cook down down and and the the chicken chicken is is tender tender . 
2 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cornmeal cornmeal , , or or as as needed needed 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan and and stir stir in in sugar sugar , , butter butter , , and and salt salt until until sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Turn Turn heat heat to to low low and and whisk whisk in in 1 1 cup cup of of cornmeal cornmeal until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornmeal cornmeal to to make make a a very very thick thick , , workable workable dough dough . . Heat Heat 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease your your hands hands well well with with 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of oil oil and and scoop scoop about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of cornmeal cornmeal dough dough ; ; roll roll the the dough dough into into a a ball ball , , then then shape shape into into a a 3-inch 3-inch long long stick stick about about 1/2 1/2 inch inch wide wide . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dough dough , , oiling oiling your your hands hands as as needed needed . . Deep-fry Deep-fry the the cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks until until golden golden brown brown , , working working in in batches batches of of 3 3 or or 4 4 at at a a time time . . Drain Drain fried fried cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks on on paper paper towels towels and and keep keep warm warm . . Mix Mix mayonnaise mayonnaise , , ketchup ketchup , , and and garlic garlic salt salt in in a a bowl bowl until until well well combined combined ; ; serve serve cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks with with the the sauce sauce for for dipping dipping . 
2 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 3 3 plantains plantains , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces salt salt to to taste taste garlic garlic powder powder to to taste taste | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place a a few few plantain plantain slices slices in in the the oil oil , , and and cook cook until until lightly lightly golden golden in in color color , , about about three three minutes minutes . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining slices slices . . While While the the plantain plantain slices slices are are still still warm warm , , place place them them one one at at a a time time between between two two sheets sheets of of wax wax paper paper , , and and flatten flatten by by hand hand to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick . . Return Return flattened flattened slices slices to to the the skillet skillet , , and and continue continue frying frying until until golden golden brown brown . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels , , and and season season with with salt salt and and garlic garlic powder powder . 
2 pounds pounds cranberries cranberries 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange zest zest 3 3 cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks 1 1 pint pint orange orange juice juice 2 2 cups cups packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 cups cups water water | | Place Place the the cranberries cranberries , , grated grated orange orange rind rind , , cinnamon cinnamon , , orange orange juice juice , , brown brown sugar sugar and and enough enough water water to to cover cover cranberries cranberries in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Immediately Immediately turn turn heat heat down down and and simmer simmer for for about about one one hour hour or or until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened . . Taste Taste for for sweetness sweetness and and adjust adjust with with additional additional sugar sugar if if necessary necessary . . You You can can not not overcook overcook , , so so continue continue cooking cooking until until you you have have a a good good thick thick consistency consistency . . Let Let mixture mixture cool cool a a bit bit then then refrigerate refrigerate in in a a covered covered container container . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin seeds seeds 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/3 1/3 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1/3 1/3 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lemon lemon juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder , , trimmed trimmed and and tied tied | | Heat Heat a a small small , , heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the cumin cumin seeds seeds and and peppercorns peppercorns to to the the pan pan ; ; stir stir constantly constantly until until fragrant fragrant and and beginning beginning to to brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool . . Using Using a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle , , crush crush toasted toasted spices spices with with garlic garlic , , salt salt , , and and oregano oregano to to make make a a paste paste . . You You can can also also do do this this in in the the small small bowl bowl of of a a food food processor processor . . Transfer Transfer to to a a small small bowl bowl , , and and stir stir in in orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice , , lemon lemon juice juice , , sherry sherry , , and and olive olive oil oil . . Place Place the the pork pork in in a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Pour Pour citrus citrus marinade marinade over over meat meat , , and and seal seal . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 12 12 to to 24 24 hours hours , , turning turning the the bag bag over over occasionally occasionally . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer pork pork and and marinade marinade to to a a roasting roasting pan pan , , and and place place in in the the oven oven . . Roast Roast for for about about 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , basting basting with with pan pan juices juices occasionally occasionally , , or or until until an an instant instant read read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted in in the the center center reads reads 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Add Add small small amounts amounts of of water water to to the the pan pan if if it it dries dries out out . . Transfer Transfer the the pork pork to to a a carving carving board board , , cover cover loosely loosely with with foil foil , , and and let let rest rest for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Carve Carve , , and and serve serve . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 1 1 large large onion onion , , diced diced 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 large large potatoes potatoes - - peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup Jamaican Jamaican curry curry powder powder hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce to to taste taste | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook the the chicken chicken , , onions onions , , and and garlic garlic until until the the chicken chicken has has browned browned ; ; about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in potatoes potatoes , , salt salt , , and and curry curry powder powder ; ; add add enough enough water water to to cover cover the the chicken chicken halfway halfway . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer until until tender tender , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . Season Season to to taste taste with with hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . 
1 pound pound beef beef oxtail oxtail , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 scotch scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 cup cup canned canned fava fava beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon whole whole allspice allspice berries berries 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Toss Toss the the oxtail oxtail with with the the onion onion , , green green onion onion , , garlic garlic , , ginger ginger , , chile chile pepper pepper , , soy soy sauce sauce , , thyme thyme , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Brown Brown the the oxtail oxtail in in the the skillet skillet until until browned browned all all over over , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Place Place into into a a pressure pressure cooker cooker , , and and pour pour in in 1 1 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water . . Cook Cook at at pressure pressure for for 25 25 minutes minutes , , then then remove remove from from heat heat , , and and remove remove the the lid lid according according to to manufacturer manufacturer 's 's directions directions . . Add Add the the fava fava beans beans and and allspice allspice berries berries , , and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , and and stir stir into into the the simmering simmering oxtail oxtail . . Cook Cook and and stir stir a a few few minutes minutes until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened , , and and the the beans beans are are tender tender . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cubed cubed 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple tidbits tidbits with with juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded coconut coconut 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon jerk jerk seasoning seasoning mix mix 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 ounces ounces dry dry fettuccini fettuccini noodles noodles | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir chicken chicken until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the pineapple pineapple and and its its juice juice , , coconut coconut , , brown brown sugar sugar , , jerk jerk seasoning seasoning , , cinnamon cinnamon , , chili chili powder powder , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer 15 15 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook until until al al dente dente , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain . . Toss Toss chicken chicken mixture mixture with with drained drained pasta pasta . 
5 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 green green plantain plantain 3 3 cups cups cold cold water water salt salt to to taste taste | | Peel Peel the the plantain plantain and and cut cut it it into into 1-inch 1-inch chunks chunks . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Place Place the the plantains plantains in in the the oil oil and and fry fry on on both both sides sides , , ; ; approximately approximately 3 3 1/2 1/2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove the the plantains plantains from from the the pan pan and and flatten flatten the the plantains plantains by by placing placing a a plate plate over over the the fried fried plantains plantains and and pressing pressing down down . . Dip Dip the the plantains plantains in in water water , , then then return return them them to to the the hot hot oil oil and and fry fry 1 1 minute minute on on each each side side . . Salt Salt to to taste taste and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
3/4 cup cup water water 1/3 1/3 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped green green onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon canola canola oil oil 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme , , crushed crushed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 6 6 lean lean pork pork chops chops , , 1/2 1/2 inch inch thick thick | | Combine Combine water water , , lemon lemon juice juice , , onion onion , , brown brown sugar sugar , , green green onions onions , , oil oil , , salt salt , , allspice allspice , , cinnamon cinnamon , , black black pepper pepper , , thyme thyme , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . Reserve Reserve 1/2 1/2 cup cup for for basting basting . . Place Place pork pork chops chops in in shallow shallow glass glass dish dish . . Pour Pour remaining remaining marinade marinade over over the the meat meat . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate at at least least 12 12 hours hours , , but but no no longer longer than than 24 24 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium medium heat heat . . Place Place grate grate 4 4 to to 5 5 inches inches above above heat heat source source . . Oil Oil the the grill grill grate grate . . Arrange Arrange chops chops on on grate grate , , and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Cover Cover grill grill , , and and cook cook chops chops for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once , , or or to to desired desired doneness doneness . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds boneless boneless pork pork chops chops 1 1 pint pint water water to to cover cover 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme 8 8 black black peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , halved halved and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , combine combine water water , , juice juice of of one one lime lime , , thyme thyme sprig sprig , , peppercorns peppercorns , , garlic garlic powder powder , , onion onion powder powder and and salt salt . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pork pork chops chops , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 to to 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , until until meat meat is is very very tender tender . . Add Add more more water water as as necessary necessary to to keep keep chops chops covered covered . . Turn Turn off off heat heat and and let let the the chops chops rest rest in in the the broth broth for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove chops chops from from broth broth and and shred shred , , removing removing excess excess fat fat ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a large large frying frying pan pan , , heat heat olive olive oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add the the shredded shredded pork pork and and fry fry until until it it is is almost almost crisp crisp , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion and and garlic garlic and and continue continue to to cook cook until until the the onion onion is is just just tender tender yet yet slightly slightly crisp crisp , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes more more . . Add Add the the juice juice of of one one lime lime , , mix mix though though and and toss toss with with cilantro cilantro . . Serve Serve and and enjoy enjoy . 
8 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1/4 1/4 cup cup salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 10 10 pound pound ) ) pork pork picnic picnic roast roast 4 4 yucca yucca ( ( cassava cassava ) ) roots roots , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place the the garlic garlic , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , and and olive olive oil oil into into the the container container of of a a food food processor processor or or blender blender . . Process Process until until smooth smooth . . Use Use a a small small knife knife to to make make several several incisions incisions in in the the fresh fresh ham ham . . Insert Insert the the garlic garlic paste paste into into each each one one using using a a small small spoon spoon . . Place Place the the ham ham in in a a roaster roaster , , and and cover cover . . Bake Bake for for 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , then then check check every every 15 15 minutes minutes or or so so , , until until the the internal internal temperature temperature reaches reaches 175 175 degrees degrees F F ( ( 80 80 degrees degrees C C ) ) when when taken taken with with a a meat meat thermometer thermometer . . While While the the meat meat is is roasting roasting , , place place the the yucca yucca in in a a large large pot pot of of boiling boiling water water . . Cook Cook until until fork fork tender tender , , and and drain drain . . Serve Serve with with pork pork roast roast . 
15 habanero habanero peppers peppers 1 1 small small mango mango - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 onion onion , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 3 3 green green onions onions , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry mustard mustard powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated lime lime zest zest | | Wearing Wearing disposable disposable gloves gloves , , and and being being careful careful not not to to get get any any in in your your eyes eyes or or on on your your skin skin , , roughly roughly chop chop the the habanero habanero peppers peppers . . Place Place the the habanero habanero peppers peppers , , mango mango , , onion onion , , green green onions onions , , and and garlic garlic into into a a blender blender . . Pour Pour in in the the vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil , , cover cover the the blender blender , , and and pulse pulse until until the the mixture mixture is is very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Stop Stop the the blender blender , , and and add add dry dry mustard mustard powder powder , , salt salt , , curry curry powder powder , , and and lime lime zest zest . . Blend Blend again again until until the the sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into clean clean jars jars , , and and store store in in refrigerator refrigerator . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 4 4 limes limes , , juiced juiced 1 1 cup cup water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground allspice allspice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chopped chopped green green onions onions 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 2 2 habanero habanero peppers peppers , , chopped chopped | | Place Place chicken chicken in in a a medium medium bowl bowl . . Cover Cover with with lime lime juice juice and and water water . . Set Set aside aside . . In In a a blender blender or or food food processor processor , , place place allspice allspice , , nutmeg nutmeg , , salt salt , , brown brown sugar sugar , , thyme thyme , , ginger ginger , , black black pepper pepper and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Blend Blend well well , , then then mix mix in in onions onions , , green green onions onions , , garlic garlic and and habanero habanero peppers peppers until until almost almost smooth smooth . . Pour Pour most most of of the the blended blended marinade marinade mixture mixture into into bowl bowl with with chicken chicken , , reserving reserving a a small small amount amount to to use use as as a a basting basting sauce sauce while while cooking cooking . . Cover Cover , , and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium medium heat heat . . Brush Brush grill grill grate grate with with oil oil . . Cook Cook chicken chicken slowly slowly on on the the preheated preheated grill grill . . Turn Turn frequently frequently , , basting basting often often with with remaining remaining marinade marinade mixture mixture . . Cook Cook to to desired desired doneness doneness . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry kidney kidney beans beans 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 bulb bulb shallot shallot , , minced minced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked long long grain grain white white rice rice 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon adobo adobo seasoning seasoning ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon kosher kosher salt salt freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh parsley parsley 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 scotch scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper | | Place Place beans beans in in a a large large pot pot , , and and cover cover with with 3 3 inches inches of of water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , or or until until tender tender . . Drain Drain , , reserving reserving liquid liquid . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute shallot shallot and and garlic garlic until until fragrant fragrant . . Stir Stir in in cooked cooked beans beans , , and and cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Measure Measure reserved reserved liquid liquid , , and and add add water water to to equal equal 5 5 cups cups ; ; stir stir into into skillet skillet . . Stir Stir in in the the uncooked uncooked rice rice . . Season Season with with bay bay leaves leaves , , adobo adobo seasoning seasoning , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and cloves cloves . . Place Place sprigs sprigs of of parsley parsley and and thyme thyme , , and and scotch scotch bonnet bonnet pepper pepper on on top top , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 18 18 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove thyme thyme , , parsley parsley , , and and scotch scotch bonnet bonnet pepper pepper to to serve serve . 
3/4 cup cup sweetened sweetened flaked flaked coconut coconut 3/4 3/4 cup cup crushed crushed gingersnap gingersnap cookies cookies 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons melted melted butter butter 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lime lime zest zest 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coconut coconut extract extract 2 2 cups cups cubed cubed fresh fresh mango mango 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9-inch 9-inch springform springform pan pan . . Combine Combine the the coconut coconut , , gingersnap gingersnap cookies cookies , , and and melted melted butter butter in in a a bowl bowl ; ; mix mix until until evenly evenly moistened moistened . . Press Press the the cookie cookie mixture mixture into into the the bottom bottom and and slightly slightly up up the the sides sides of of the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake the the crust crust in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until browned browned and and set set , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool . . Reduce Reduce oven oven heat heat to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the softened softened cream cream cheese cheese in in mixer mixer bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . With With beater beater set set to to medium-low medium-low , , slowly slowly pour pour the the condensed condensed milk milk into into the the bowl bowl , , mixing mixing only only until until just just blended blended , , stopping stopping to to scrape scrape the the sides sides of of the the bowl bowl as as necessary necessary . . Add Add the the eggs eggs , , individually individually , , allowing allowing the the first first to to blend blend into into the the mixture mixture before before adding adding the the second second ; ; again again , , scrape scrape the the sides sides of of the the bowl bowl as as necessary necessary . . Pour Pour about about half half of of the the cream cream cheese cheese batter batter into into a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Stir Stir the the lime lime juice juice and and lime lime zest zest into into the the portion portion in in the the new new bowl bowl ; ; pour pour the the batter batter over over the the crust crust in in the the springform springform pan pan , , smoothing smoothing into into an an even even layer layer . . Stir Stir the the coconut coconut extract extract through through the the remaining remaining cream cream cheese cheese batter batter ; ; pour pour over over the the lime-flavored lime-flavored batter batter in in the the springfom springfom pan pan , , smoothing smoothing into into an an even even layer layer . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the top top of of the the cheesecake cheesecake springs springs back back when when gently gently pressed pressed , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn oven oven heat heat off off , , but but leave leave cheesecake cheesecake inside inside with with oven oven door door slightly slightly ajar ajar until until the the oven oven cools cools completely completely . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until completely completely chilled chilled . . Prepare Prepare mango mango coulis coulis by by pureeing pureeing the the mango mango with with sugar sugar until until smooth smooth . . If If too too thick thick , , add add a a teaspoon teaspoon of of water water at at a a time time , , using using just just enough enough to to make make pourable pourable . . Drizzle Drizzle over over cheesecake cheesecake when when plated plated . 
1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 3 3 pounds pounds pork pork tenderloin tenderloin 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 cup cup orange orange juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grill grill seasoning seasoning ( ( such such as as Montreal Montreal Steak Steak Seasoning® Seasoning® ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground red red pepper pepper 3 3 bay bay leaves leaves 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated lemon lemon peel peel | | Arrange Arrange onion onion slices slices in in the the bottom bottom of of a a slow slow cooker cooker ; ; top top with with pork pork tenderloin tenderloin . . Sprinkle Sprinkle garlic garlic evenly evenly over over onion onion and and pork pork . . Pour Pour orange orange juice juice , , vinegar vinegar , , and and lemon lemon juice juice over over pork pork . . Sprinkle Sprinkle cumin cumin , , grill grill seasoning seasoning , , salt salt , , red red pepper pepper , , bay bay leaves leaves , , and and lemon lemon zest zest over over pork pork . . Cover Cover and and cook cook on on Low Low until until pork pork is is very very tender tender , , 6 6 to to 7 7 hours hours . . To To serve serve , , slice slice tenderloin tenderloin into into 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slices slices , , arrange arrange on on a a platter platter , , and and drizzle drizzle juices juices over over top top . 
1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 8 8 small small whole whole peeled peeled potatoes potatoes 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon cumin cumin 1 1 leaf leaf fresh fresh sage sage salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 pounds pounds chicken chicken leg leg quarters quarters | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine onion onion , , garlic garlic , , bell bell pepper pepper , , and and potatoes potatoes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce and and wine wine ; ; season season with with cumin cumin , , sage sage leaf leaf , , and and salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Place Place chicken chicken legs legs in in slow slow cooker cooker , , and and pour pour mixture mixture over over chicken chicken . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on Low Low heat heat until until juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours . 
2 1/2 1/2 cups cups dry dry black black beans beans 6 6 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 6 6 stalks stalks celery celery , , chopped chopped , , with with leaves leaves 2 2 cups cups water water 8 8 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup sherry sherry 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions | | In In a a medium-size medium-size stock stock pot pot , , add add dried dried black black beans beans and and 6 6 cups cups of of water water , , cover cover and and let let soak soak overnight overnight . . In In another another large large stock stock pot pot , , heat heat olive olive oil oil and and add add onion onion , , minced minced garlic garlic and and chopped chopped celery celery . . Saute Saute until until vegetables vegetables are are softened softened . . Drain Drain and and rinse rinse soaked soaked black black beans beans . . Add Add pre-soaked pre-soaked beans beans or or drained drained and and rinsed rinsed canned canned beans beans to to vegetable vegetable mixture mixture along along with with 2 2 cups cups water water and and broth broth . . Bring Bring to to boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer . . Add Add cayenne cayenne pepper pepper and and ground ground cumin cumin . . Partially Partially cover cover the the pot pot and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat for for 2 2 to to 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , or or until until beans beans are are soft soft . . Puree Puree soup soup in in batches batches in in food food processor processor or or blender blender . . Return Return pureed pureed soup soup to to stock stock pot pot and and simmer simmer . . Add Add vinegar vinegar , , sherry sherry , , soy soy sauce sauce and and pepper pepper . . Serve Serve hot hot with with a a dollop dollop of of sour sour cream cream or or yogurt yogurt and and chopped chopped green green onions onions . 
1 pound pound black black beans beans , , washed washed 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons paprika paprika 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 minced minced hot hot green green chile chile peppers peppers 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , soak soak beans beans in in water water to to cover cover overnight overnight . . Rinse Rinse beans beans , , and and transfer transfer to to a a large large stock stock pot pot . . Add Add onion onion , , bell bell peppers peppers , , bay bay leaves leaves , , paprika paprika , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , and and chile chile peppers peppers , , along along with with water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Test Test beans beans for for tenderness tenderness , , and and when when tender tender add add garlic garlic and and balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar . . Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . 
1/3 cup cup olive olive oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme leaves leaves 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/3 1/3 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 scotch scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup minced minced green green onions onions with with tops tops 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | In In a a large large dish dish , , mix mix the the olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , sugar sugar , , thyme thyme , , allspice allspice , , cinnamon cinnamon , , salt salt , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Stir Stir in in the the scotch scotch bonnet bonnet pepper pepper , , green green onions onions , , and and garlic garlic . . Pierce Pierce chicken chicken on on all all sides sides with with a a fork fork , , and and place place in in the the dish dish . . Cover Cover , , and and marinate marinate up up to to 24 24 hours hours in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , turning turning occasionally occasionally . . Preheat Preheat the the grill grill for for high high heat heat . . Lightly Lightly oil oil grill grill grate grate . . Discard Discard marinade marinade , , and and grill grill chicken chicken 8 8 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , or or until until juices juices run run clear clear . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 stalks stalks celery celery , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon turbinado turbinado sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sea sea salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground turmeric turmeric 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 2 2 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and diced diced 4 4 cups cups chopped chopped zucchini zucchini 6 6 cups cups vegetable vegetable stock stock 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh spinach spinach 1/2 1/2 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , minced minced | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , celery celery , , garlic garlic , , ginger ginger , , and and sugar sugar . . Cook Cook 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until onion onion is is tender tender . . Season Season with with salt salt , , turmeric turmeric , , allspice allspice , , and and nutmeg nutmeg . . Mix Mix in in potatoes potatoes and and zucchini zucchini , , and and pour pour in in the the vegetable vegetable stock stock . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender . . Remove Remove soup soup from from heat heat , , season season with with cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and stir stir in in spinach spinach . . Using Using a a hand hand blender blender , , blend blend soup soup until until smooth smooth . . Garnish Garnish with with red red bell bell pepper pepper to to serve serve . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin seed seed 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 fresh fresh red red chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons orange orange juice juice 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime zest zest 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon honey honey 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sweet sweet soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold , , unsalted unsalted butter butter , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced mango mango 1/2 1/2 avocado avocado chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro to to taste taste chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley to to taste taste | | Toast Toast the the cumin cumin seeds seeds in in a a dry dry skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the cumin cumin seeds seeds , , garlic garlic , , chile chile pepper pepper , , salt salt , , olive olive oil oil , , orange orange juice juice , , and and lemon lemon juice juice into into the the bowl bowl of of a a blender blender ; ; grind grind to to a a coarse coarse paste paste . . Toss Toss the the chicken chicken with with the the marinade marinade , , then then place place into into the the refrigerator refrigerator , , and and allow allow to to marinate marinate for for about about 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook the the chicken chicken for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes on on each each side side until until browned browned . . Place Place into into the the oven oven , , and and cook cook until until the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . When When the the chicken chicken is is done done , , remove remove , , cover cover with with foil foil , , and and allow allow to to rest rest for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . While While the the chicken chicken is is in in the the oven oven , , whisk whisk together together the the olive olive oil oil , , orange orange juice juice , , lime lime zest zest , , honey honey , , and and soy soy sauce sauce in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Simmer Simmer until until the the orange orange juice juice has has reduced reduced to to 1/3 1/3 of of original original volume volume and and is is beginning beginning to to get get thick thick and and syrupy syrupy . . Once Once thick thick , , remove remove from from heat heat , , and and whisk whisk in in the the butter butter pieces pieces one one at at a a time time until until melted melted ; ; set set aside aside . . To To serve serve , , place place chicken chicken on on the the plate plate and and sprinkle sprinkle with with mango mango and and avocado avocado . . Drizzle Drizzle with with the the sauce sauce , , and and garnish garnish with with cilantro cilantro and and parsley parsley . 
2 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in chicken chicken pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sea sea salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 3 3 bok bok choy choy stalks stalks , , chopped chopped | | Stir Stir together together the the garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and sazon sazon seasoning seasoning in in a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Coat Coat chicken chicken pieces pieces with with this this mixture mixture . . Heat Heat a a Dutch Dutch oven oven or or heavy heavy skillet skillet with with a a lid lid over over medium medium heat heat for for at at least least 3 3 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the sugar sugar over over the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan , , and and stir stir gently gently until until it it becomes becomes liquid liquid and and caramelizes caramelizes . . Add Add the the chicken chicken , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cover cover , , and and cook cook for for another another 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , letting letting the the juices juices cook cook down down until until they they are are almost almost gone gone . . Add Add the the bok bok choy choy , , and and cook cook just just until until wilted wilted . 
2 cups cups butter butter 2 2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 9 9 eggs eggs 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white rum rum ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lime lime juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon almond almond extract extract 1 1 grated grated zest zest of of one one lime lime 2 2 pounds pounds chopped chopped dried dried mixed mixed fruit fruit 2 2 cups cups red red wine wine 1 1 cup cup dark dark molasses molasses 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour 2 2 - - 9 9 inch inch round round cake cake pans pans . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the butter butter and and sugar sugar until until light light and and fluffy fluffy . . Beat Beat in in eggs eggs , , then then add add rum rum , , lime lime juice juice , , vanilla vanilla , , almond almond extract extract , , and and lime lime zest zest . . Stir Stir in in mixed mixed fruit fruit , , wine wine , , and and molasses molasses . . Sift Sift together together flour flour , , baking baking powder powder , , nutmeg nutmeg , , allspice allspice , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and salt salt . . Fold Fold into into batter batter , , being being careful careful not not to to over-mix over-mix . . Pour Pour into into prepared prepared pans pans . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 80 80 to to 90 90 minutes minutes , , or or until until a a knife knife inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean . . Let Let cool cool in in pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then turn turn out out onto onto a a wire wire rack rack and and cool cool completely completely . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground round round 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chopped chopped onion onion 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups chopped chopped yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon hot hot paprika paprika 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chile chile powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can kidney kidney beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cannellini cannellini beans beans 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Place Place ground ground round round in in a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet . . Cook Cook over over medium medium high high heat heat until until evenly evenly brown brown . . Drain Drain and and set set aside aside . . Coat Coat a a large large Dutch Dutch oven oven with with cooking cooking spray spray , , and and place place over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . When When pan pan is is hot hot , , cook cook the the onion onion and and garlic garlic in in olive olive oil oil until until the the onion onion is is tender tender . . Add Add the the yellow yellow pepper pepper , , and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Season Season with with cumin cumin , , paprika paprika , , chile chile powder powder , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , and and cloves cloves . . Stir Stir in in the the stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes , , kidney kidney beans beans , , black black beans beans , , and and cannellini cannellini beans beans . . Pour Pour in in water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then stir stir in in the the meat meat and and tomato tomato paste paste . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , stir stir in in the the vinegar vinegar and and serve serve hot hot topped topped with with fresh fresh cilantro cilantro . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried minced minced onion onion 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried thyme thyme 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground allspice allspice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the dried dried onion onion , , thyme thyme , , allspice allspice , , ground ground black black pepper pepper , , cinnamon cinnamon , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and salt salt . . Coat Coat meat meat lightly lightly with with oil oil , , then then rub rub seasoning seasoning onto onto meat meat . 
1 cup cup butter butter 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 4 4 eggs eggs 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 cup cup milk milk 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour a a 9 9 inch inch Bundt Bundt pan pan . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder , , ground ground ginger ginger , , cinnamon cinnamon and and salt salt . . Set Set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the butter butter and and brown brown sugar sugar until until light light and and fluffy fluffy . . Beat Beat in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the grated grated ginger ginger root root and and vanilla vanilla . . Beat Beat in in the the flour flour mixture mixture alternately alternately with with the the milk milk , , mixing mixing just just until until incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour batter batter into into prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 45 45 to to 50 50 minutes minutes , , or or until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center of of the the cake cake comes comes out out clean clean . . Let Let cool cool in in pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then turn turn out out onto onto a a serving serving plate plate . . Dust Dust lightly lightly with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar before before serving serving . 
6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced yellow yellow onion onion 1 1 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed orange orange juice juice 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lemon-pepper lemon-pepper seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce ( ( e.g e.g . . Tabasco™ Tabasco™ ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Pulse Pulse the the garlic garlic and and onion onion in in a a blender blender until until very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Pour Pour in in orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice ; ; season season with with cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , lemon-pepper lemon-pepper , , black black pepper pepper , , salt salt , , cilantro cilantro , , and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Blend Blend until until thoroughly thoroughly incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour in in the the olive olive oil oil , , and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . 
2 cups cups brown brown rice rice 4 4 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Cajun Cajun seasoning seasoning 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black beans beans 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped black black olives olives , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground dried dried chipotle chipotle pepper pepper ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Place Place rice rice and and water water in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer for for about about 45 45 minutes minutes , , or or until until rice rice is is tender tender . . While While the the rice rice is is cooking cooking , , brown brown the the ground ground beef beef in in a a deep deep skillet skillet or or wok wok . . Season Season with with Cajun Cajun seasoning seasoning . . When When meat meat is is almost almost done done , , add add the the onion onion , , and and cook cook until until the the meat meat is is browned browned and and the the onion onion is is translucent translucent . . Stir Stir in in the the beans beans , , olives olives , , vinegar vinegar , , and and chipotle chipotle powder powder , , if if using using . . Mix Mix well well , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Add Add the the cilantro cilantro during during the the last last 5 5 minutes minutes of of cooking cooking . . Serve Serve hot hot over over or or mixed mixed with with rice rice . 
2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 10 10 ajies ajies dulces dulces peppers peppers , , tops tops removed removed 3 3 medium medium tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 4 4 onions onions , , cut cut into into large large chunks chunks 3 3 medium medium heads heads garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 25 25 cilantro cilantro leaves leaves with with stems stems 25 25 leaves leaves recao recao , , or or culantro culantro 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon black black pepper pepper | | In In a a food food processor processor , , combine combine green green peppers peppers , , red red peppers peppers ajies ajies dulces dulces , , tomatoes tomatoes , , onions onions , , and and garlic garlic . . Add Add cilantro cilantro , , recao recao , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Process Process to to the the consistency consistency of of semi-chunky semi-chunky salsa salsa ( ( not not watery watery ) ) . . Place Place in in a a ziplock ziplock freezer freezer bag bag , , and and use use as as needed needed , , or or freeze freeze in in portions portions . 
3 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups raisins raisins 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) jars jars green green olives olives , , drained drained and and chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 bunch bunch cilantro cilantro | | Brown Brown the the ground ground beef beef in in a a Dutch Dutch oven oven or or large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until crumbly crumbly and and no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour off off any any excess excess grease grease , , then then stir stir in in the the onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes before before adding adding the the red red pepper pepper , , green green pepper pepper , , raisins raisins , , olives olives , , tomato tomato paste paste , , water water , , and and cilantro cilantro . . Bring Bring the the mixture mixture to to a a simmer simmer , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the peppers peppers have have cooked cooked to to your your liking liking . 
1/2 green green onion onion , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lime lime juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 1 1 ( ( 2 2 to to 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces | | Combine Combine green green onions onions , , orange orange juice juice , , ginger ginger , , hot hot pepper pepper , , lemon lemon or or lime lime juice juice , , soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , allspice allspice , , cinnamon cinnamon and and cloves cloves . . Add Add chicken chicken , , and and marinate marinate for for 8 8 hours hours . . Prepare Prepare barbecue barbecue , , medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook chicken chicken , , and and drizzle drizzle with with left left over over marinade marinade that that has has been been boiled boiled for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package egg egg roll roll wrappers wrappers 2 2 quarts quarts vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | In In a a large large , , heavy heavy saute saute pan pan , , heat heat olive olive oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add chopped chopped garlic garlic , , onions onions , , and and bell bell pepper pepper ; ; saute saute until until soft soft . . Add Add meat meat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned . . Drain Drain off off excess excess fat fat . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce and and cilantro cilantro . . Simmer Simmer until until cilantro cilantro wilts wilts . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and cool cool until until mixture mixture can can be be handled handled . . Wrap Wrap 2 2 to to 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of meat meat in in an an egg egg roll roll wrapper wrapper to to form form a a triangle triangle . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining ingredients ingredients . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or deep deep fry fry pan pan to to 360 360 degrees degrees F F ( ( 168 168 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry patties patties in in hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown . . When When done done , , transfer transfer to to plates plates lined lined with with paper paper towels towels to to drain drain . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 cups cups fresh fresh okra okra , , ends ends trimmed trimmed and and halved halved lengthwise lengthwise salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced | | Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion has has softened softened and and turned turned translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the okra okra , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Increase Increase the the heat heat to to high high ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the okra okra begins begins to to brown brown , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the lime lime juice juice over over the the okra okra and and continue continue cooking cooking for for 2 2 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds beef beef sirloin sirloin steak steak , , sliced sliced thinly thinly across across the the grain grain 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 2 2 large large white white onions onions , , sliced sliced into into rings rings 1/4 1/4 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 cup cup beef beef stock stock 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | In In a a large large resealable resealable bag bag , , combine combine the the steak steak , , olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , onions onions , , vinegar vinegar , , beef beef stock stock , , and and salt salt . . Seal Seal and and shake shake to to mix mix . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for at at least least 4 4 hours hours , , or or up up to to a a couple couple of of days days . . When When you you are are ready ready to to cook cook , , dump dump the the entire entire contents contents of of the the bag bag into into a a large large deep deep skillet skillet . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover and and simmer simmer until until the the beef beef is is fork fork tender tender , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . 
1/2 yellow yellow onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup green green onions onions , , sliced sliced 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic 3 3 habanero habanero peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh thyme thyme leaves leaves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon kosher kosher salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground allspice allspice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1/3 1/3 cup cup lime lime juice juice 3 3 pounds pounds chicken chicken wing wing drumettes drumettes cooking cooking spray spray | | Put Put yellow yellow onion onion , , green green onions onions , , garlic garlic , , habanero habanero peppers peppers , , fresh fresh thyme thyme , , kosher kosher salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , allspice allspice , , dried dried thyme thyme , , cinnamon cinnamon , , cumin cumin , , nutmeg nutmeg , , vegetable vegetable oil oil , , soy soy sauce sauce , , brown brown sugar sugar , , and and lime lime juice juice , , respectively respectively , , in in a a blender blender and and blend blend until until marinade marinade is is completely completely smooth smooth . . Place Place chicken chicken in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Pour Pour marinade marinade over over chicken chicken and and toss toss to to coat coat completely completely . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 8 8 hours hours or or overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and spray spray with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Place Place chicken chicken drumettes drumettes on on prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet and and reserve reserve marinade marinade left left in in the the bowl bowl . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Brush Brush 1/2 1/2 the the reserved reserved marinade marinade onto onto chicken chicken and and turn turn wings wings over over . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn chicken chicken and and brush brush on on remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 the the reserved reserved marinade marinade . . Bake Bake until until tender tender and and caramelized caramelized , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Rest Rest wings wings on on baking baking sheet sheet for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before removing removing to to a a serving serving platter platter . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 2 2 cups cups whole whole milk milk | | Whisk Whisk together together the the cornstarch cornstarch , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and cinnamon cinnamon in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Stir Stir in in the the milk milk to to evenly evenly blend blend ingredients ingredients , , and and set set over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Continue Continue whisking whisking and and cooking cooking until until custard custard reaches reaches a a thick thick consistency consistency , , 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . It It is is important important to to stir stir the the entire entire time time , , or or the the custard custard can can easily easily burn burn or or clump clump . . The The custard custard will will continue continue to to thicken thicken as as it it cools cools . . Spoon Spoon into into bowls bowls to to serve serve . 
2 pounds pounds mahi mahi mahi mahi fillets fillets 1/2 1/2 cup cup dark dark rum rum 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into thin thin rings rings 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Arrange Arrange the the fish fish fillets fillets in in an an oven oven proof proof 9x13 9x13 glass glass baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the rum rum and and lime lime juice juice over over the the fish fish and and place place a a slice slice onion onion on on each each fillet fillet . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 2 2 to to 4 4 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove fish fish from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and pour pour off off about about 3/4 3/4 of of the the liquid liquid . . Leave Leave the the onion onion slices slices in in the the dish dish and and place place a a thick thick slice slice of of lemon lemon on on each each fish fish fillet fillet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with oregano oregano and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Place Place a a pat pat of of butter butter or or margarine margarine on on each each fillet fillet . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork . . Be Be careful careful not not to to over over cook cook the the fish fish or or it it will will be be dry dry . . Serve Serve with with the the cooked cooked onion onion and and lemon lemon slices slices . 
1 ( ( 2 2 to to 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 pinch pinch saffron saffron salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 cubes cubes chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1 1 cup cup beer beer 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can peas peas , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , roasted roasted and and sliced sliced | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Saute Saute chicken chicken until until lightly lightly browned browned ; ; remove remove from from skillet skillet and and set set aside aside . . Saute Saute onion onion , , garlic garlic and and green green bell bell pepper pepper until until soft soft ; ; stir stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce , , saffron saffron , , salt salt and and bouillon bouillon and and return return chicken chicken pieces pieces to to skillet skillet . . Cook Cook for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then add add rice rice and and reduce reduce heat heat to to low low . . Add Add beer beer and and simmer simmer for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until rice rice is is tender tender . . Finally Finally , , stir stir in in peas peas with with liquid liquid and and garnish garnish with with roasted roasted red red bell bell pepper pepper . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sofrito sofrito sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 2 2 cups cups cooked cooked pinto pinto beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water salt salt to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat . . Add Add tomato tomato sauce sauce , , sofrito sofrito , , sazon sazon , , and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring for for about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in beans beans , , water water , , and and salt salt . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until sauce sauce has has thickened thickened . 
1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin seeds seeds 1/4 1/4 cup cup orange orange juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Montreal-style Montreal-style steak steak seasoning seasoning 2 2 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime juice juice 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds beef beef rib-eye rib-eye steaks steaks | | Place Place cumin cumin seeds seeds into into a a small small skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; stir stir constantly constantly until until seeds seeds turn turn dark dark brown brown and and smell smell toasted toasted , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Immediately Immediately pour pour seeds seeds into into a a bowl bowl to to stop stop the the cooking cooking . . Mix Mix cumin cumin seeds seeds with with orange orange juice juice , , vegetable vegetable oil oil , , steak steak seasoning seasoning , , lime lime juice juice , , and and oregano oregano in in a a bowl bowl . . Place Place steaks steaks into into a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag , , pour pour orange orange juice juice marinade marinade over over the the meat meat , , and and squeeze squeeze out out air air . . Seal Seal bag bag and and turn turn it it over over several several times times to to coat coat meat meat with with marinade marinade . . Refrigerate Refrigerate at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or longer longer for for extra extra flavor flavor . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Remove Remove steaks steaks from from marinade marinade , , shaking shaking off off any any excess excess . . Discard Discard used used marinade marinade . . Grill Grill steaks steaks on on the the preheated preheated grill grill until until seared seared on on the the outsides outsides and and still still slightly slightly pink pink in in the the centers centers , , 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes per per side side . . An An instant-read instant-read meat meat thermometer thermometer inserted inserted sideways sideways into into the the center center of of the the thickest thickest steak steak should should read read 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 65 65 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Let Let steaks steaks rest rest for for 3 3 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
1/2 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons kosher kosher salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange juice juice 1 1 ( ( 6 6 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces | | Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until very very hot hot . . While While the the oil oil heats heats , , mash mash the the cumin cumin , , salt salt , , oregano oregano , , and and garlic garlic together together into into a a paste paste in in a a heat-proof heat-proof bowl bowl ; ; whisk whisk the the hot hot oil oil into into the the paste paste . . Allow Allow the the mixture mixture to to cool cool slightly slightly . . Add Add the the lime lime juice juice and and orange orange juice juice ; ; stir stir . . Place Place the the chicken chicken in in a a large large sealable sealable bag bag ; ; pour pour the the marinade marinade over over the the chicken chicken and and shake shake to to assure assure an an even even coating coating . . Refrigerate Refrigerate at at least least 4 4 hours hours , , up up to to overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Arrange Arrange the the marinated marinated chicken chicken in in a a roasting roasting pan pan . . Bake Bake the the chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until no no longer longer pink pink at at the the bone bone and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 180 180 degrees degrees F F ( ( 82 82 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 small small white white onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , divided divided 1/8 1/8 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons achiote achiote powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef stew stew meat meat , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch cubes cubes 2 2 white white potatoes potatoes 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine 4 4 cups cups water water 6 6 cubes cubes beef beef bouillon bouillon | | In In a a blender blender , , combine combine green green pepper pepper , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin and and salt salt . . Pulse Pulse , , while while pouring pouring 1/8 1/8 cup cup olive olive oil oil through through top top of of blender blender . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in pressure pressure cooker cooker on on medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute green green pepper pepper mixture mixture for for 1 1 minute minute , , then then stir stir in in achiote achiote powder powder and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin . . Cook Cook for for 1 1 minute minute , , then then stir stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Return Return to to a a simmer simmer , , then then add add beef beef ; ; let let simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in potatoes potatoes , , then then pour pour in in wine wine and and water water . . Drop Drop in in the the bouillon bouillon cubes cubes . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute ; ; add add water water , , if if necessary necessary , , to to cover cover . . Cover Cover with with lid lid of of pressure pressure cooker cooker . . Following Following manufacturer manufacturer 's 's directions directions , , cook cook under under 15 15 pound pound pressure pressure for for about about 30 30 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter , , softened softened 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cream cream cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 egg egg 2 2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup mashed mashed overripe overripe bananas bananas 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark rum rum , , or or rum rum flavoring flavoring 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime zest zest 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped toasted toasted pecans pecans 1/4 1/4 cup cup flaked flaked coconut coconut Topping Topping 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons unsalted unsalted butter butter 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime juice juice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dark dark rum rum , , or or rum rum flavoring flavoring 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped toasted toasted pecans pecans 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons flaked flaked coconut coconut | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease two two 8x4 8x4 inch inch loaf loaf pans pans . . Beat Beat together together 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of softened softened butter butter and and cream cream cheese cheese in in a a large large bowl bowl until until fluffy fluffy . . Slowly Slowly beat beat in in sugar sugar until until well well incorporated incorporated . . Add Add the the egg egg and and mix mix well well . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder , , baking baking soda soda , , and and salt salt in in a a separate separate bowl bowl . . In In a a different different bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the bananas bananas , , milk milk , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rum rum , , lime lime zest zest , , lime lime juice juice , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract ; ; stir stir well well . . Pour Pour 1/3 1/3 of of the the flour flour mixture mixture into into the the butter butter and and mix mix well well . . Mix Mix in in 1/2 1/2 of of the the mashed mashed bananas bananas . . Continue Continue with with another another 1/3 1/3 of of the the flour flour , , followed followed by by the the remaining remaining banana banana mixture mixture , , and and finally finally the the remaining remaining flour flour . . Fold Fold in in 1/4 1/4 cup cup pecans pecans and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup coconut coconut flakes flakes . . Pour Pour the the mixture mixture into into the the loaf loaf pans pans , , and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about one one hour hour . . When When finished finished , , cool cool for for 10 10 minutes minutes in in the the pan pan , , remove remove , , and and finish finish cooling cooling on on a a wire wire rack rack . . After After you you take take the the banana banana bread bread out out of of the the oven oven , , prepare prepare the the topping topping by by stirring stirring together together the the brown brown sugar sugar , , remaining remaining butter butter , , lime lime juice juice , , and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of rum rum in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer stirring stirring constantly constantly ; ; cook cook until until the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved and and the the mixture mixture is is smooth smooth , , about about one one minute minute . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and stir stir in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pecans pecans , , and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons coconut coconut . . Spoon Spoon this this topping topping over over the the loaves loaves while while they they are are still still warm warm . . The The topping topping will will harden harden slightly slightly when when the the loaf loaf cools cools . 
6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced yellow yellow onion onion 1 1 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed orange orange juice juice 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly squeezed squeezed lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lemon-pepper lemon-pepper seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce ( ( e.g e.g . . Tabasco™ Tabasco™ ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Pulse Pulse the the garlic garlic and and onion onion in in a a blender blender until until very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Pour Pour in in orange orange juice juice , , lime lime juice juice ; ; season season with with cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , lemon-pepper lemon-pepper , , black black pepper pepper , , salt salt , , cilantro cilantro , , and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Blend Blend until until thoroughly thoroughly incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour in in the the olive olive oil oil , , and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . 
4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup minced minced shallots shallots 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups tomato tomato - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons curry curry powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon whole whole allspice allspice berries berries 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1/4 1/4 cup cup brandy-based brandy-based orange orange liqueur liqueur ( ( such such as as Grand Grand Marnier® Marnier® ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chile chile paste paste 8 8 ounces ounces rotini rotini pasta pasta 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds medium medium shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine garlic garlic , , shallots shallots , , ginger ginger and and oil oil . . In In another another small small bowl bowl , , combine combine green green pepper pepper , , tomato tomato , , curry curry powder powder , , allspice allspice , , chicken chicken stock stock , , Grand Grand Marnier Marnier , , soy soy sauce sauce , , brown brown sugar sugar , , cornstarch cornstarch , , and and chile chile paste paste . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate both both until until ready ready to to use use . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat a a large large saute saute pan pan over over high high . . When When hot hot , , add add garlic-oil garlic-oil mixture mixture . . Saute Saute until until garlic garlic begins begins to to sizzle sizzle but but has has not not browned browned . . Stir Stir the the tomato tomato mixture mixture , , then then pour pour into into the the saute saute pan pan . . Bring Bring to to a a rapid rapid boil boil and and cook cook until until it it begins begins to to thicken thicken , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the shrimp shrimp , , and and toss toss until until they they become become pink pink , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Immediately Immediately add add the the pasta pasta . . Stir Stir and and toss toss until until well well combined combined and and pasta pasta is is heated heated through through . . Taste Taste and and adjust adjust seasonings seasonings , , especially especially salt salt . . Transfer Transfer to to a a heated heated platter platter and and sprinkle sprinkle on on the the cilantro cilantro . . Serve Serve at at once once . 
1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons crushed crushed garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons black black pepper pepper | | In In a a blender blender or or food food processor processor , , combine combine olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Process Process for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . 
For Crab Crab Cakes Cakes : : 3/4 3/4 pound pound crabmeat crabmeat 1 1 cup cup plain plain bread bread crumbs crumbs 3/4 3/4 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 2 2 green green onions onions , , minced minced Hot Hot sauce sauce , , to to taste taste Salt Salt and and pepper pepper , , to to taste taste For For Mango Mango Salsa Salsa : : 1 1 mango mango , , peeled peeled , , pitted pitted and and diced diced 1 1 red red onion onion , , diced diced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced Minced Minced jalapeno jalapeno , , to to taste taste Salt Salt and and pepper pepper , , to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Drain Drain the the crabmeat crabmeat . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix the the crabmeat crabmeat , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , mayonnaise mayonnaise , , egg egg , , green green onions onions , , hot hot sauce sauce , , and and salt salt and and pepper pepper until until combined combined . . Shape Shape the the mixture mixture into into 16 16 small small cakes cakes . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a small small bowl bowl combine combine the the diced diced mango mango , , onion onion , , basil basil , , cilantro cilantro , , lime lime juice juice , , jalapeno jalapeno ( ( if if using using ) ) , , and and salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until ready ready to to use use . . To To grill grill : : Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium medium heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate or or a a grill grill basket basket . . Grill Grill about about 8 8 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once . . To To pan-fry pan-fry : : Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook crab crab cake cake patties patties until until crisp crisp and and golden golden brown brown on on both both sides sides , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Top Top crab crab cakes cakes with with mango mango salsa salsa and and enjoy enjoy . 
2 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups short short grain grain rice rice 1 1 ( ( 1/4 1/4 inch inch x x 3 3 inch inch ) ) strip strip lime lime peel peel 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 cinnamon cinnamon stick stick 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons anise anise seed seed , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 cup cup raisins raisins ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups of of water water , , rice rice , , and and lime lime peel peel in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes until until the the rice rice is is tender tender . . While While the the rice rice is is cooking cooking , , combine combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of water water , , the the cinnamon cinnamon stick stick , , and and anise anise in in another another saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a low low boil boil for for 3 3 minutes minutes , , then then remove remove saucepan saucepan from from stove stove . . Strain Strain flavored flavored water water into into a a bowl bowl and and set set aside aside , , discarding discarding cinnamon cinnamon stick stick and and anise anise pieces pieces . . After After rice rice has has simmered simmered for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , carefully carefully remove remove the the lime lime peel peel with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon , , and and over over low low heat heat , , gradually gradually stir stir evaporated evaporated milk milk and and condensed condensed milk milk into into the the rice rice . . Mix Mix in in the the cinnamon cinnamon and and anise-flavored anise-flavored water water , , vanilla vanilla , , and and salt salt . . Add Add raisins raisins , , if if desired desired . . Continue Continue to to stir stir until until the the mixture mixture thickens thickens , , about about 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . If If the the pudding pudding is is too too watery watery after after 10 10 minutes minutes , , turn turn up up heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and stir stir continuously continuously . . When When pudding pudding reaches reaches desired desired consistency consistency , , remove remove from from heat heat and and pour pour into into individual individual dishes dishes , , or or a a large large bowl bowl . . Store Store in in the the refrigerator refrigerator until until ready ready to to serve serve . 
1 ( ( 1 1 1/4 1/4 pound pound ) ) pork pork tenderloin tenderloin , , cut cut crosswise crosswise into into 8 8 slices slices 1 1 lime lime , , zested zested and and juiced juiced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , pressed pressed | | Flatten Flatten the the pork pork tenderloin tenderloin slices slices slightly slightly , , and and set set aside aside . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the lime lime zest zest , , olive olive oil oil , , cumin cumin , , salt salt , , crushed crushed red red pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic . . Reserve Reserve the the lime lime juice juice . . Rub Rub the the seasoning seasoning mixture mixture onto onto both both sides sides of of the the pork pork slices slices . . Spray Spray a a heavy heavy skillet skillet or or ridged ridged grill grill pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray , , and and place place over over medium medium heat heat . . Pan-fry Pan-fry the the pork pork slices slices until until browned browned on on both both sides sides , , 6 6 to to 7 7 minutes minutes per per side side . . After After you you turn turn the the meat meat over over , , pour pour the the reserved reserved lime lime juice juice over over the the meat meat and and continue continue cooking cooking until until no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center . . Serve Serve hot hot , , topped topped with with pan pan juices juices . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 20 20 ounce ounce ) ) can can canned canned crushed crushed pineapple pineapple , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 13.5 13.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk 1/4 1/4 cup cup lime lime juice juice | | Make Make a a syrup syrup by by bringing bringing the the sugar sugar and and water water to to a a boil boil in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat , , stir stir and and boil boil until until the the liquid liquid becomes becomes clear clear , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool . . Blend Blend the the drained drained pineapple pineapple in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor until until very very smooth smooth and and frothy frothy . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the syrup syrup , , pineapple pineapple puree puree , , coconut coconut milk milk , , and and lime lime juice juice . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , about about 3 3 hours hours . . Freeze Freeze in in the the freezer freezer canister canister of of an an ice ice cream cream maker maker according according to to the the manufacturer manufacturer 's 's directions directions . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 cups cups uncooked uncooked calrose calrose rice rice , , rinsed rinsed | | Bring Bring vegetable vegetable oil oil , , water water , , and and salt salt to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Add Add rice rice , , and and cook cook until until the the water water has has just just about about cooked cooked out out ; ; stir stir . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir again again , , and and serve serve . . Rice Rice may may be be a a little little sticky sticky and and may may stick stick to to bottom bottom of of pot pot . 
4 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) cube cube steaks steaks 2 2 eggs eggs 3 3 cups cups dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 2 2 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | In In a a shallow shallow dish dish , , combine combine the the breadcrumbs breadcrumbs with with the the oregano oregano , , cumin cumin , , and and salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Beat Beat eggs eggs in in another another shallow shallow dish dish . . Dip Dip each each steak steak in in beaten beaten eggs eggs , , and and then then in in the the breadcrumb breadcrumb mixture mixture . . Make Make sure sure to to cover cover each each steak steak well well with with the the breadcrumb breadcrumb mixture mixture . . In In a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet , , heat heat 1inch 1inch oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Place Place the the steaks steaks in in the the oil oil when when it it 's 's hot hot ( ( so so that that the the breading breading will will not not stick stick to to the the pan pan ) ) . . Cook Cook steaks steaks , , turning turning once once , , until until brown brown for for well well done done and and golden golden brown brown for for medium medium . . Serve Serve with with lemon lemon slices slices . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons jerk jerk paste paste 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package uncooked uncooked egg egg noodles noodles 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon jerk jerk paste paste 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 limes limes , , quartered quartered salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 4 4 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , for for garnish garnish | | Rub Rub each each breast breast half half with with 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon jerk jerk paste paste , , and and place place in in a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate at at least least 1 1 hour hour . . Preheat Preheat the the grill grill for for high high heat heat . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil , , cook cook the the egg egg noodles noodles 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , until until al al dente dente , , and and drain drain . . Lightly Lightly oil oil the the grill grill grate grate . . Grill Grill chicken chicken 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , until until juices juices run run clear clear . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , heat heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , and and cook cook the the garlic garlic for for one one minute minute . . Mix Mix in in the the chicken chicken stock stock , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon jerk jerk paste paste , , white white wine wine , , chopped chopped cilantro cilantro , , juice juice of of 1 1 lime lime , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and stir stir in in the the heavy heavy cream cream . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until mixture mixture is is thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Do Do not not allow allow it it to to boil boil . . Pour Pour the the cooked cooked egg egg noodles noodles into into the the saucepan saucepan , , and and toss toss with with the the cream cream sauce sauce . . Divide Divide noodles noodles onto onto 4 4 serving serving plates plates , , and and top top with with grilled grilled chicken chicken . . Garnish Garnish each each serving serving with with a a cilantro cilantro sprig sprig and and the the juice juice of of 1/4 1/4 lime lime . 
2 pounds pounds yuca yuca , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced lengthwise lengthwise 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , diced diced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice | | Place Place the the yuca yuca into into a a pan pan and and fill fill with with enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Stir Stir in in salt salt . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , cover cover , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , and and place place yucca yucca on on a a serving serving plate plate . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , place place the the olive olive oil oil , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and lemon lemon juice juice into into a a pan pan . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the hot hot olive olive oil oil mixture mixture over over the the yuca yuca , , and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
2 cups cups sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter - - chilled chilled , , cut cut into into tablespoon-size tablespoon-size pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated lime lime zest zest 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x5 9x5 inch inch loaf loaf pan pan . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt , , set set aside aside . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the sugar sugar and and butter butter . . Beat Beat in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the lime lime zest zest , , nutmeg nutmeg , , cinnamon cinnamon and and allspice allspice . . Add Add the the dry dry ingredients ingredients alternately alternately with with the the milk milk , , stirring stirring after after each each addition addition . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake for for 75 75 to to 90 90 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted comes comes out out clean clean . . Cool Cool in in the the pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before turning turning out out onto onto a a rack rack to to cool cool completely completely . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 6 6 large large pitted pitted green green olives olives , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 cup cup raisins raisins 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon capers capers ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 ( ( 1.41 1.41 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages sazon sazon seasoning seasoning ( ( such such as as Goya® Goya® ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar salt salt to to taste taste | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir garlic garlic , , onion onion , , and and green green bell bell pepper pepper in in the the hot hot oil oil until until softened softened , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Crumble Crumble ground ground beef beef into into the the skillet skillet ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned completely completely , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir olives olives , , raisins raisins , , capers capers , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , sazon sazon seasoning seasoning , , cumin cumin , , sugar sugar , , and and salt salt through through the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture . . Cover Cover the the skillet skillet , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and cook cook until until the the mixture mixture is is heated heated through through , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
4 cloves cloves garlic garlic 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange juice juice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons white white wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast | | Grind Grind garlic garlic , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , and and coriander coriander into into a a paste paste using using a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle . . Transfer Transfer half half of of the the garlic garlic and and spice spice paste paste to to a a bowl bowl ; ; add add lime lime juice juice , , orange orange juice juice , , olive olive oil oil , , and and vinegar vinegar . . Beat Beat the the mixture mixture with with a a whisk whisk until until smooth smooth . . Cut Cut several several inch-long inch-long , , deep deep slits slits into into the the fatty fatty side side of of the the pork pork roast roast . . Rub Rub the the reserved reserved garlic garlic paste paste into into the the slits slits . . Put Put rubbed rubbed roast roast into into a a gallon-size gallon-size resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Pour Pour the the liquid liquid mixture mixture over over the the roast roast , , squeeze squeeze as as much much air air from from the the bag bag as as possible possible and and seal seal ; ; refrigerate refrigerate , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , 8 8 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Remove Remove pork pork roast roast from from refrigerator refrigerator , , put put into into a a roasting roasting pan pan , , and and let let warm warm at at room room temperature temperature for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Roast Roast pork pork in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , reduce reduce heat heat to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , and and continue continue cooking cooking until until pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 2 2 hours hours more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 170 170 degrees degrees F F ( ( 75 75 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 pound pound boneless boneless pork pork roast roast , , cubed cubed 1 1 pound pound onions onions , , diced diced 1 1 pound pound bananas bananas , , peeled peeled and and diced diced 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice cayenne cayenne pepper pepper to to taste taste salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and brown brown the the pork pork on on all all sides sides . . Mix Mix in in the the onions onions , , and and cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender . . Mix Mix the the bananas bananas and and tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice into into the the skillet skillet . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium low low , , and and simmer simmer 30 30 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until pork pork is is very very tender tender . . Season Season with with cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . 
2 cups cups sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter - - chilled chilled , , cut cut into into tablespoon-size tablespoon-size pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated lime lime zest zest 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x5 9x5 inch inch loaf loaf pan pan . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt , , set set aside aside . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the sugar sugar and and butter butter . . Beat Beat in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the lime lime zest zest , , nutmeg nutmeg , , cinnamon cinnamon and and allspice allspice . . Add Add the the dry dry ingredients ingredients alternately alternately with with the the milk milk , , stirring stirring after after each each addition addition . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake for for 75 75 to to 90 90 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted comes comes out out clean clean . . Cool Cool in in the the pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before turning turning out out onto onto a a rack rack to to cool cool completely completely . 
1 1/4 1/4 pounds pounds cooked cooked deveined deveined shelled shelled shrimp shrimp , , tail tail shells shells removed removed 3 3 avocados avocados - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted and and diced diced 1 1 bunch bunch green green onion onion tops tops , , chopped chopped 3 3 large large red red tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1 1 large large yellow yellow tomato tomato , , diced diced 1 1 bell bell pepper pepper ( ( any any color color ) ) , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 bunch bunch cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Cut Cut the the shrimp shrimp into into 2 2 or or 3 3 pieces pieces and and place place in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; add add the the avocado avocado , , green green onion onion , , red red and and yellow yellow tomatoes tomatoes , , bell bell pepper pepper , , cilantro cilantro , , and and lime lime juice juice ; ; mix mix . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Refrigerate Refrigerate at at least least 15 15 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 cup cup dark dark rum rum 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans coconut coconut milk milk 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | Pour Pour the the water water , , milk milk , , rum rum , , and and coconut coconut milk milk into into a a blender blender . . Add Add the the cinnamon cinnamon and and salt salt . . Blend Blend until until well well combined combined , , then then refrigerate refrigerate for for at at least least one one hour hour , , or or until until ready ready to to serve serve . 
1/4 cup cup curry curry powder powder , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon seasoned seasoned salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme , , leaves leaves stripped stripped 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground allspice allspice , , or or more more to to taste taste salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 1/4 1/4 pounds pounds whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 potato potato , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped carrots carrots 2 2 scallions scallions ( ( green green onions onions ) ) , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , minced minced 1 1 Scotch Scotch bonnet bonnet chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped , , or or to to taste taste | | Whisk Whisk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , onion onion powder powder , , salt salt , , thyme thyme leaves leaves , , allspice allspice , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add chicken chicken and and coat coat with with curry curry mixture mixture until until curry curry mixture mixture is is wet wet and and sticks sticks to to chicken chicken . . Heat Heat oil oil and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons curry curry powder powder in in a a large large cast-iron cast-iron skillet skillet over over high high heat heat until until oil oil is is hot hot and and curry curry powder powder changes changes color color , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add chicken chicken to to the the hot hot oil oil mixture mixture and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Add Add water water , , potato potato , , carrots carrots , , scallions scallions , , ginger ginger , , and and chile chile pepper pepper to to skillet skillet . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and gravy gravy is is thickened thickened , , allowing allowing chicken chicken to to cook cook undisturbed undisturbed for for last last 15 15 minutes minutes of of cooking cooking , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone , , should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove chicken chicken to to a a serving serving dish dish ; ; continue continue simmering simmering gravy gravy , , uncovered uncovered , , to to thicken thicken ( ( if if needed needed ) ) . . Serve Serve chicken chicken with with gravy gravy . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 large large onion onion , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 red red apple apple , , cored cored and and sliced sliced 1 1 pinch pinch curry curry powder powder 1 1 cup cup water water 2/3 2/3 cup cup brown brown rice rice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dark dark molasses molasses or or treacle treacle 1 1 small small banana banana , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon unsweetened unsweetened flaked flaked coconut coconut | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the onion onion and and red red apple apple ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion is is transparent transparent . . Season Season with with curry curry powder powder , , and and stir stir in in the the water water . . Add Add the the rice rice and and molasses molasses , , cover cover , , and and cook cook over over low low heat heat until until the the rice rice is is tender tender , , and and water water has has been been absorbed absorbed , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in the the banana banana , , then then sprinkle sprinkle the the coconut coconut on on top top . . Heat Heat through through for for a a moment moment over over low low heat heat before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound smoked smoked sausage sausage 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chickpeas chickpeas ( ( garbanzo garbanzo beans beans ) ) , , undrained undrained 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sherry sherry wine wine or or Marsala Marsala 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons adobo adobo seasoning seasoning | | Slice Slice sausage sausage lengthwise lengthwise , , then then cut cut into into 1/4-inch 1/4-inch slices slices . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Brown Brown sausage sausage about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in onion onion ; ; cook cook 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in chickpeas chickpeas and and juices juices , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and sherry sherry . . Season Season with with oregano oregano , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , black black pepper pepper , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and adobo adobo seasoning seasoning . . Simmer Simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , at at least least 10 10 minutes minutes ( ( 1 1 hour hour or or more more is is preferable preferable ) ) . 
2 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in chicken chicken pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sea sea salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet sazon sazon seasoning seasoning 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 3 3 bok bok choy choy stalks stalks , , chopped chopped | | Stir Stir together together the the garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and sazon sazon seasoning seasoning in in a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Coat Coat chicken chicken pieces pieces with with this this mixture mixture . . Heat Heat a a Dutch Dutch oven oven or or heavy heavy skillet skillet with with a a lid lid over over medium medium heat heat for for at at least least 3 3 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the sugar sugar over over the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan , , and and stir stir gently gently until until it it becomes becomes liquid liquid and and caramelizes caramelizes . . Add Add the the chicken chicken , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cover cover , , and and cook cook for for another another 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , letting letting the the juices juices cook cook down down until until they they are are almost almost gone gone . . Add Add the the bok bok choy choy , , and and cook cook just just until until wilted wilted . 
6 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and minced minced 3/4 3/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | In In a a food food processor processor or or blender blender , , combine combine the the green green onions onions , , onion onion , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , vegetable vegetable oil oil , , brown brown sugar sugar , , thyme thyme , , cloves cloves , , nutmeg nutmeg and and allspice allspice . . Mix Mix for for about about 15 15 seconds seconds . . Place Place the the chicken chicken in in a a medium medium bowl bowl , , and and coat coat with with the the marinade marinade . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for high high heat heat . . Lightly Lightly oil oil grill grill grate grate . . Cook Cook chicken chicken on on the the prepared prepared grill grill 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , until until juices juices run run clear clear . 
1 fluid fluid ounce ounce rum rum cream cream liqueur liqueur 1 1 fluid fluid ounce ounce coffee coffee flavored flavored liqueur liqueur 1 1 fluid fluid ounce ounce milk milk 1/2 1/2 fluid fluid ounce ounce strawberry strawberry flavored flavored syrup syrup 1/2 1/2 banana banana 1 1 cup cup crushed crushed ice ice | | In In a a blender blender , , combine combine rum rum cream cream liqueur liqueur , , coffee coffee liqueur liqueur , , milk milk and and strawberry strawberry syrup syrup . . Add Add the the banana banana and and crushed crushed ice ice . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into glasses glasses and and serve serve . 
1 large large red red onion onion 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 habanero habanero pepper pepper , , seeded seeded 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons orange orange juice juice concentrate concentrate , , thawed thawed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 6 6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | In In a a food food processor processor , , combine combine onion onion , , garlic garlic , , habanero habanero pepper pepper , , and and ginger ginger . . Pulse Pulse until until ingredients ingredients are are minced minced . . Blend Blend in in olive olive oil oil , , brown brown sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , orange orange juice juice concentrate concentrate , , soy soy sauce sauce , , cinnamon cinnamon , , nutmeg nutmeg , , cloves cloves , , cilantro cilantro , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . In In a a container container , , combine combine marinade marinade with with chicken chicken . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium medium heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil grate grate . . Grill Grill chicken chicken for for 10 10 minutes minutes per per side side , , or or until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 3/4 3/4 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon margarine margarine , , melted melted 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , dissolve dissolve yeast yeast and and sugar sugar in in warm warm water water . . Let Let stand stand until until creamy creamy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the yeast yeast mixture mixture with with the the oil oil , , margarine margarine , , salt salt and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups flour flour ; ; stir stir well well to to combine combine . . Mix Mix in in the the remaining remaining flour flour , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup at at a a time time , , beating beating well well after after each each addition addition . . When When the the dough dough has has pulled pulled together together , , turn turn it it out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface and and knead knead until until smooth smooth and and supple supple , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Lightly Lightly oil oil a a large large bowl bowl , , place place the the dough dough in in the the bowl bowl and and turn turn to to coat coat with with oil oil . . Cover Cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in volume volume , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Deflate Deflate the the dough dough and and turn turn it it out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface and and form form into into a a loaf loaf . . Place Place the the loaf loaf into into a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x5 9x5 inch inch loaf loaf pan pan . . Cover Cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let rise rise for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , preheat preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until the the top top is is golden golden brown brown and and the the bottom bottom of of the the loaf loaf sounds sounds hollow hollow when when tapped tapped . . Cool Cool in in pan pan 5 5 minutes minutes and and then then turn turn out out onto onto rack rack and and cool cool completely completely . 
1/3 cup cup lime lime juice juice 1/3 1/3 cup cup honey honey 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Jamaican Jamaican jerk jerk seasoning seasoning 3 3 dashes dashes hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 pounds pounds large large shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 12 12 wooden wooden skewers skewers , , soaked soaked in in water water for for 1 1 hour hour | | Stir Stir together together the the lime lime juice juice , , honey honey , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and oil oil in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Season Season with with jerk jerk seasoning seasoning , , hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Add Add the the shrimp shrimp and and toss toss well well to to coat coat . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for one one hour hour to to marinate marinate . . Place Place wooden wooden skewers skewers to to soak soak in in warm warm water water . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Remove Remove skewers skewers from from the the water water , , pat pat dry dry , , and and spray spray with with nonstick nonstick cooking cooking spray spray . . Skewer Skewer the the shrimp shrimp . . Grill Grill the the shrimp shrimp on on the the grill grill on on both both sides sides until until pink pink and and opaque opaque , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . 
Fritters : : 1 1 quart quart oil oil for for frying frying 3/4 3/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 egg egg 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper to to taste taste seasoned seasoned salt salt to to taste taste salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped conch conch meat meat 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 stalks stalks celery celery , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped Dipping Dipping Sauce Sauce : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ketchup ketchup 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lime lime juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon mayonnaise mayonnaise 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon hot hot sauce sauce salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large pot pot or or deep deep fryer fryer to to 365 365 degrees degrees F F ( ( 185 185 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix the the flour flour , , egg egg , , and and milk milk . . Season Season with with cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Mix Mix in in the the conch conch meat meat , , onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , celery celery , , and and garlic garlic . . Drop Drop the the batter batter by by rounded rounded tablespoons tablespoons into into the the hot hot oil oil , , and and fry fry until until golden golden brown brown . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix the the ketchup ketchup , , lime lime juice juice , , mayonnaise mayonnaise , , hot hot sauce sauce , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Serve Serve dipping dipping sauce sauce on on the the side side with with the the fritters fritters . 
4 cups cups water water 2 2 cups cups rice rice 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 carrots carrots , , peeled peeled and and chopped chopped 2 2 ribs ribs celery celery , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black beans beans 2 2 smoked smoked Spanish Spanish chorizo chorizo sausage sausage links links , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar picante picante sauce sauce 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons smoked smoked paprika paprika 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Bring Bring water water and and rice rice to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender and and liquid liquid has has been been absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a stockpot stockpot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , carrots carrots , , celery celery , , and and garlic garlic in in hot hot oil oil until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix black black beans beans with with liquid liquid , , chorizo chorizo , , chicken chicken stock stock , , picante picante sauce sauce , , bay bay leaves leaves , , paprika paprika , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , cumin cumin , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes together together in in the the pot pot with with the the onion onion mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , place place a a cover cover on on the the pot pot , , and and simmer simmer until until the the beans beans have have softened softened , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove lid lid from from pot pot and and continue continue cooking cooking until until the the mixture mixture reaches reaches your your desired desired consistency consistency , , at at least least 20 20 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove bay bay leaves leaves and and adjust adjust seasoning seasoning to to your your preferences preferences . . Serve Serve over over rice rice . 
15 habanero habanero peppers peppers 1 1 small small mango mango - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 onion onion , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 3 3 green green onions onions , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry mustard mustard powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated lime lime zest zest | | Wearing Wearing disposable disposable gloves gloves , , and and being being careful careful not not to to get get any any in in your your eyes eyes or or on on your your skin skin , , roughly roughly chop chop the the habanero habanero peppers peppers . . Place Place the the habanero habanero peppers peppers , , mango mango , , onion onion , , green green onions onions , , and and garlic garlic into into a a blender blender . . Pour Pour in in the the vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil , , cover cover the the blender blender , , and and pulse pulse until until the the mixture mixture is is very very finely finely chopped chopped . . Stop Stop the the blender blender , , and and add add dry dry mustard mustard powder powder , , salt salt , , curry curry powder powder , , and and lime lime zest zest . . Blend Blend again again until until the the sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into clean clean jars jars , , and and store store in in refrigerator refrigerator . 
2 large large strawberries strawberries , , hulled hulled 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 3/4 3/4 cup cup chilled chilled lemon-lime lemon-lime soda soda 4 4 cubes cubes ice ice | | In In the the container container of of a a blender blender , , combine combine the the strawberries strawberries , , sugar sugar , , lemon lemon juice juice and and lemon-lime lemon-lime soda soda . . Add Add the the ice ice and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into a a fancy fancy glass glass to to serve serve . 
4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup cold cold water water 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt . . Rub Rub in in the the butter butter until until it it is is in in pieces pieces no no larger larger than than peas peas . . Mix Mix in in water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon at at a a time time just just until until the the mixture mixture is is wet wet enough enough to to form form into into a a ball ball . . The The dough dough should should be be a a firm firm consistency consistency . . Knead Knead briefly briefly . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until hot hot . . Break Break off off pieces pieces of of the the dough dough and and shape shape into into a a patty patty - - kind kind of of like like a a flat flat biscuit biscuit . . Place Place just just enough enough of of the the dumplings dumplings in in the the pan pan so so they they are are not not crowded crowded . . Fry Fry on on each each side side until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove from from the the pan pan and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels before before serving serving . 
1 cup cup water water 2 2 ( ( 3 3 inch inch ) ) cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks 15 15 whole whole cloves cloves 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon anise anise seed seed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) loaf loaf day-old day-old bread bread 4 4 cups cups evaporated evaporated milk milk 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted | | Bring Bring 1 1 cup cup of of water water to to a a boil boil in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Add Add the the cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks , , cloves cloves , , and and anise anise seeds seeds . . Cover Cover , , and and set set aside aside to to steep steep for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , combine combine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir occasionally occasionally to to dissolve dissolve the the sugar sugar completely completely , , but but stop stop stirring stirring once once the the mixture mixture comes comes to to a a boil boil . . Stay Stay near near the the stove stove to to monitor monitor the the color color , , swirling swirling the the pan pan gently gently to to redistribute redistribute the the caramel caramel as as the the sugar sugar begins begins to to darken darken . . Cook Cook to to about about 310 310 degrees degrees F F ( ( 160 160 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , or or until until the the sugar sugar turns turns light light golden golden brown brown , , then then pour pour into into a a 9x5 9x5 inch inch loaf loaf pan pan . . Set Set aside aside to to allow allow the the caramel caramel to to harden harden . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove the the crusts crusts from from the the day-old day-old bread bread , , tear tear the the bread bread into into cubes cubes , , and and place place into into a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Strain Strain the the spice spice tea tea through through a a fine fine mesh mesh sieve sieve to to remove remove the the spices spices . . Add Add to to the the bread bread along along with with the the evaporated evaporated milk milk . . Stir Stir to to evenly evenly moisten moisten , , and and set set aside aside for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk the the eggs eggs in in a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl along along with with 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of sugar sugar , , the the vanilla vanilla extract extract , , salt salt , , and and melted melted butter butter . . Stir Stir in in the the moistened moistened bread bread mixture mixture until until evenly evenly mixed mixed . . Pour Pour into into the the loaf loaf pan pan over over the the caramel caramel . . Line Line a a roasting roasting pan pan with with a a damp damp kitchen kitchen towel towel . . Place Place the the loaf loaf pan pan on on the the towel towel , , inside inside roasting roasting pan pan , , and and place place roasting roasting pan pan on on oven oven rack rack . . Fill Fill roasting roasting pan pan with with boiling boiling water water to to reach reach halfway halfway up up the the sides sides of of the the loaf loaf pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 1 1 hour hour and and 15 15 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool in in the the pan pan for for about about an an hour hour , , then then refrigerate refrigerate until until cold cold , , 2 2 hours hours more more . . When When ready ready , , invert invert the the budin budin onto onto a a serving serving plate plate . . The The caramel caramel will will have have turned turned to to a a syrup syrup and and will will cover cover the the budin budin like like a a sauce sauce . 
1/4 cup cup honey honey mustard mustard 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pineapple pineapple preserves preserves 8 8 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken 1/2 1/2 cup cup cooked cooked crumbled crumbled bacon bacon 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups unsweetened unsweetened pineapple pineapple tidbits tidbits , , drained drained | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the honey honey mustard mustard and and pineapple pineapple preserves preserves . . Divide Divide the the mixture mixture evenly evenly between between 4 4 of of the the tortillas tortillas . . Spread Spread evenly evenly to to within within 1 1 inch inch of of the the edges edges . . Distribute Distribute the the Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , chicken chicken , , bacon bacon evenly evenly over over the the pineapple pineapple mixture mixture ; ; top top with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas to to make make quesadillas quesadillas . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 250 250 degrees degrees F F ( ( 120 120 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Melt Melt a a small small amount amount of of the the butter butter in in the the skillet skillet , , tilting tilting the the pan pan to to cover cover the the surface surface with with butter butter . . Place Place one one of of the the quesadillas quesadillas into into the the skillet skillet , , and and fry fry on on each each side side until until lightly lightly browned browned and and the the cheese cheese has has melted melted , , about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Keep Keep cooked cooked quesadillas quesadillas in in a a warm warm oven oven while while you you fry fry the the remaining remaining . . To To serve serve , , cut cut each each quesadilla quesadilla into into 6 6 wedges wedges and and arrange arrange on on a a platter platter with with pineapple pineapple tidbits tidbits in in the the center center . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon light light brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced pineapple pineapple in in juice juice , , drained drained - - divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Mix Mix together together the the light light brown brown sugar sugar , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of black black pepper pepper , , thyme thyme , , cumin cumin , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of garlic garlic salt salt , , paprika paprika , , chili chili powder powder , , and and nutmeg nutmeg in in a a bowl bowl until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Rub Rub both both sides sides of of chicken chicken breasts breasts with with the the spice spice mixture mixture , , and and place place into into a a 9x9-inch 9x9-inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle any any remaining remaining seasoning seasoning mix mix on on top top of of chicken chicken , , if if desired desired . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the chicken chicken is is lightly lightly browned browned , , no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read meat meat thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of a a chicken chicken breast breast should should read read at at least least 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 70 70 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . While While chicken chicken is is baking baking , , bring bring the the rice rice and and water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender , , and and the the liquid liquid has has been been absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Chop Chop half half the the pineapple pineapple slices slices . . Mix Mix the the chopped chopped pineapple pineapple , , cilantro cilantro , , and and olive olive oil oil into into the the cooked cooked rice rice , , and and season season to to taste taste with with a a pinch pinch or or two two of of garlic garlic salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Fluff Fluff the the rice rice up up with with a a fork fork , , and and transfer transfer to to a a serving serving platter platter . . Serve Serve with with the the baked baked chicken chicken , , topped topped with with remaining remaining pineapple pineapple slices slices . 
4 turkey turkey legs legs 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil 2 2 green green bell bell peppers peppers 1 1 large large white white onion onion 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 5 5 slices slices bacon bacon 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons teriyaki teriyaki sauce sauce | | Make Make numerous numerous vertical vertical slits slits in in the the turkey turkey legs legs . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine the the olive olive oil oil with with the the salt salt , , pepper pepper , , teriyaki teriyaki , , vinegar vinegar and and oregano oregano . . Marinate Marinate turkey turkey legs legs in in the the oil oil mixture mixture . . Cut Cut onion onion , , green green pepper pepper and and bacon bacon into into small small squares squares ( ( approximately approximately the the same same size size as as the the slits slits you you cut cut on on the the legs legs ) ) . . Fill Fill each each slit slit with with one one piece piece of of pepper pepper , , onion onion and and bacon bacon . . After After the the legs legs are are stuffed stuffed , , brown brown them them in in the the oil oil mixture mixture on on medium-high medium-high . . Reduce Reduce temperature temperature to to low low and and cover cover . . Cook Cook for for 45 45 minutes minutes or or until until meat meat starts starts to to separate separate from from the the bone bone . . If If the the legs legs dry dry out out when when cooking cooking , , add add a a little little water water to to the the skillet skillet and and lower lower the the temperature temperature . 
Fish Spice Spice : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon paprika paprika 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons curry curry powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground allspice allspice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground fennel fennel seed seed ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper ( ( optional optional ) ) Mango Mango Salsa Salsa : : 1 1 mango mango - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh pineapple pineapple 1/2 1/2 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 red red onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 1 1 egg egg 1/3 1/3 cup cup milk milk 1 1 cup cup panko panko bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried unsweetened unsweetened coconut coconut , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 5 5 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets tilapia tilapia | | Mix Mix together together the the paprika paprika , , curry curry powder powder , , cumin cumin , , allspice allspice , , ginger ginger , , coriander coriander , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , fennel fennel , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl ; ; set set the the spice spice mix mix aside aside . . In In a a bowl bowl , , lightly lightly toss toss the the mango mango , , pineapple pineapple , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , black black beans beans , , red red onion onion , , and and cilantro cilantro in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour lime lime juice juice over over the the mango mango mixture mixture , , and and toss toss again again . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk together together the the egg egg and and milk milk in in a a bowl bowl . . In In a a separate separate shallow shallow bowl bowl , , stir stir the the panko panko crumbs crumbs with with coconut coconut . . Stir Stir about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the spice spice mix mix , , or or to to taste taste , , into into the the panko panko crumb crumb mixture mixture . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Dip Dip tilapia tilapia fillets fillets into into the the egg egg mixture mixture , , then then press press gently gently into into the the panko panko crumb crumb mixture mixture to to coat coat both both sides sides of of fillets fillets . . Brush Brush off off any any loose loose crumbs crumbs , , then then lay lay the the fillets fillets into into the the hot hot oil oil . . Pan-fry Pan-fry until until the the fish fish is is opaque opaque inside inside and and golden golden brown brown outside outside , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side or or as as needed needed . . Serve Serve with with mango mango salsa salsa . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds Brussels Brussels sprouts sprouts , , trimmed trimmed and and halved halved lengthwise lengthwise 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon jerk jerk seasoning seasoning 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon curry curry powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown sugar sugar | | Melt Melt butter butter with with olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in Brussels Brussels sprouts sprouts , , garlic garlic powder powder , , jerk jerk seasoning seasoning , , curry curry powder powder , , and and brown brown sugar sugar . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the Brussels Brussels sprouts sprouts , , tossing tossing them them in in the the butter butter and and seasonings seasonings , , until until tender tender , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon avocado avocado oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef sirloin sirloin tip tip roast roast 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can fire-roasted fire-roasted diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 2 2 onions onions , , sliced sliced 3 3 bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and sliced sliced into into strips strips 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat avocado avocado oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook beef beef roast roast in in the the hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer roast roast to to a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour tomatoes tomatoes and and beef beef broth broth over over roast roast ; ; add add onions onions and and bell bell peppers peppers . . Mix Mix tomato tomato paste paste , , garlic garlic , , olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , cumin cumin , , and and salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over onions onions and and bell bell peppers peppers . . Cook Cook on on High High for for 1 1 hour hour . . Decrease Decrease heat heat to to Low Low and and cook cook until until beef beef is is tender tender enough enough to to shred shred , , about about 8 8 hours hours . . Remove Remove beef beef from from slow slow cooker cooker and and shred shred on on a a work work surface surface using using 2 2 forks forks . . Return Return shredded shredded beef beef to to slow slow cooker cooker ; ; add add cilantro cilantro and and stir stir . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 1 1 hour hour more more . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano , , crushed crushed 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 2 2 tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped ( ( optional optional ) ) 3/4 3/4 cup cup canned canned tomato tomato sauce sauce | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until onion onion is is translucent translucent . . Add Add the the bell bell pepper pepper , , and and saute saute until until tender tender . . Season Season with with salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano and and bay bay leaves leaves . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until the the mixture mixture looks looks like like a a yummy yummy green green paste paste with with oil oil around around it it . . Stir Stir in in the the tomatoes tomatoes , , if if using using , , and and cook cook stirring stirring until until all all of of the the liquid liquid is is released released . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in the the tomato tomato sauce sauce simmer simmer until until the the sauce sauce looks looks really really red red . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust seasonings seasonings if if desired desired . . Remove Remove bay bay leaves leaves . . Now Now the the sauce sauce is is done done . . You You can can add add it it to to meat meat , , rice rice , , beans beans fish fish or or potatoes potatoes . . Thin Thin the the sauce sauce down down if if necessary necessary with with water water , , wine wine , , beer beer , , or or whatever whatever is is handy handy . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 pound pound beef beef for for stew stew , , cut cut in in 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked brown brown rice rice 1 1 cup cup coconut coconut milk milk 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh pigeon pigeon peas peas 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped carrot carrot 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons coarsely coarsely chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley | | Cook Cook sugar sugar in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until it it begins begins to to caramelize caramelize . . Stir Stir in in the the beef beef , , and and cook cook until until well well browned browned . . Bring Bring the the water water , , coconut coconut milk milk , , rice rice , , pigeon pigeon peas peas , , and and carrot carrot to to a a simmer simmer ; ; cover cover and and cook cook until until rice rice is is done done , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in parsley parsley to to garnish garnish . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 beef beef bouillon bouillon cube cube 1 1 cup cup rice rice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Creole Creole seasoning seasoning , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir onion onion and and garlic garlic in in hot hot oil oil until until softened softened , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir water water , , black black beans beans , , cumin cumin , , and and beef beef bouillon bouillon cube cube into into the the onion onion and and garlic garlic mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil , , add add rice rice , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender and and the the moisture moisture is is absorbed absorbed , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Gently Gently stir stir Creole Creole seasoning seasoning and and cilantro cilantro into into the the beans beans and and rice rice . 
2 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cornmeal cornmeal , , or or as as needed needed 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan and and stir stir in in sugar sugar , , butter butter , , and and salt salt until until sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Turn Turn heat heat to to low low and and whisk whisk in in 1 1 cup cup of of cornmeal cornmeal until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornmeal cornmeal to to make make a a very very thick thick , , workable workable dough dough . . Heat Heat 3 3 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease your your hands hands well well with with 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of oil oil and and scoop scoop about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of cornmeal cornmeal dough dough ; ; roll roll the the dough dough into into a a ball ball , , then then shape shape into into a a 3-inch 3-inch long long stick stick about about 1/2 1/2 inch inch wide wide . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dough dough , , oiling oiling your your hands hands as as needed needed . . Deep-fry Deep-fry the the cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks until until golden golden brown brown , , working working in in batches batches of of 3 3 or or 4 4 at at a a time time . . Drain Drain fried fried cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks on on paper paper towels towels and and keep keep warm warm . . Mix Mix mayonnaise mayonnaise , , ketchup ketchup , , and and garlic garlic salt salt in in a a bowl bowl until until well well combined combined ; ; serve serve cornmeal cornmeal sticks sticks with with the the sauce sauce for for dipping dipping . 
1 ( ( 3 3 1/2 1/2 ) ) pound pound chicken chicken , , cut cut into into 8 8 pieces pieces Goya Goya Adobo Adobo with with Pepper Pepper , , to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons Goya Goya Extra Extra Virgin Virgin Olive Olive Oil Oil 1 1 cup cup yellow yellow onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 3/4 3/4 cup cup green green bell bell pepper pepper , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons Goya Goya Minced Minced Garlic Garlic 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups Canilla Canilla Extra Extra Long Long Grain Grain Rice Rice 1 1 packet packet Goya Goya Powdered Powdered Chicken Chicken Bouillon Bouillon 1 1 packet packet Sazon Sazon Goya Goya with with Azafran Azafran 1/4 1/4 cup cup Goya Goya Pitted Pitted Alcaparrado Alcaparrado , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar Goya Goya Fancy Fancy Sliced Sliced Pimientos Pimientos 1/2 1/2 cup cup Goya Goya Frozen Frozen Peas Peas , , thawed thawed | | Using Using paper paper towels towels , , pat pat chicken chicken dry dry . . Season Season chicken chicken with with Adobo Adobo . . Heat Heat oil oil in in caldero caldero , , or or large large heavy heavy pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook chicken chicken , , in in batches batches , , until until brown brown on on all all sides sides , , 7-10 7-10 minutes minutes ; ; set set aside aside . . Stir Stir onions onions , , peppers peppers and and garlic garlic into into pot pot ; ; cook cook until until soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add rice rice , , bouillon bouillon and and Sazon Sazon to to pot pot ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until rice rice is is completely completely coated coated in in oil oil mixture mixture , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in 3 3 cups cups water water ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Add Add alcaparrado alcaparrado and and chicken chicken ( ( skin-side skin-side up up ) ) to to pot pot . . Cover Cover pot pot , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer until until water water is is absorbed absorbed , , rice rice is is tender tender and and chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . To To serve serve , , using using fork fork , , fluff fluff rice rice ; ; garnish garnish with with pimiento pimiento strips strips and and peas peas . 
1 pound pound salted salted cod cod fish fish 4 4 potatoes potatoes , , sliced sliced thick thick 2 2 onions onions , , sliced sliced 4 4 hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons capers capers 2 2 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup pitted pitted green green olives olives 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar roasted roasted red red bell bell peppers peppers , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup golden golden raisins raisins 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine | | Soak Soak the the salted salted cod cod in in about about 2 2 quarts quarts of of water water , , changing changing the the water water 3 3 times times over over the the course course of of 8 8 hours hours . . Drain Drain and and cut cut the the fish fish into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces . . Layer Layer the the half half of of each each ingredient ingredient in in the the following following order order : : potatoes potatoes , , cod cod fish fish , , onions onions , , hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , capers capers , , garlic garlic , , olives olives , , roasted roasted red red peppers peppers , , and and raisins raisins . . Place Place the the bay bay leaf leaf on on top top , , then then pour pour half half the the tomato tomato sauce sauce and and half half the the olive olive oil oil . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining ingredients ingredients in in the the same same order order . . Pour Pour the the water water and and white white wine wine on on top top . . Do Do not not stir stir . . Cover Cover and and bring bring to to a a boil boil over over medium medium heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer until until the the potatoes potatoes are are tender tender , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken thighs thighs 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 serving serving light light adobo adobo seasoning seasoning ( ( such such as as Goya Goya ® ® ) ) 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , diced diced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups medium-grain medium-grain rice rice 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 6 6 cups cups low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup frozen frozen petite petite peas peas , , thawed thawed 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Season Season chicken chicken thighs thighs with with black black pepper pepper and and adobo adobo seasoning seasoning . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir green green pepper pepper , , red red pepper pepper , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and tomato tomato paste paste in in the the hot hot oil oil , , until until the the vegetables vegetables have have softened softened slightly slightly , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove vegetables vegetables from from the the pot pot and and set set aside aside . . Pan Pan fry fry chicken chicken in in the the pot pot until until browned browned , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . Return Return cooked cooked vegetables vegetables to to the the pot pot along along with with rice rice , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , chicken chicken broth broth , , bay bay leaf leaf , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer until until rice rice is is tender tender and and chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in peas peas and and olives olives and and cook cook for for another another 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and discard discard bay bay leaf leaf . . Stir Stir in in cilantro cilantro and and serve serve . 
8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves paprika paprika to to taste taste seasoned seasoned salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 fresh fresh pineapple pineapple - - peeled peeled , , cored cored and and cubed cubed 1 1 orange orange , , sliced sliced 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 3 3 ( ( 6.8 6.8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages Spanish-style Spanish-style rice rice mix mix 2 2 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black bean bean soup soup , , undiluted undiluted | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a medium medium glass glass baking baking dish dish . . Place Place the the chicken chicken breasts breasts in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish , , and and season season with with paprika paprika , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Arrange Arrange the the pineapple pineapple , , orange orange , , lemon lemon , , and and red red bell bell pepper pepper around around the the chicken chicken , , reserving reserving a a few few slices slices of of each each for for serving serving . . Bake Bake chicken chicken uncovered uncovered 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Turn Turn , , season season again again with with paprika paprika , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , and and pepper pepper , , and and continue continue baking baking 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken juices juices run run clear clear . . While While chicken chicken is is baking baking , , prepare prepare the the Spanish Spanish rice rice according according to to package package directions directions and and heat heat the the undiluted undiluted black black bean bean soup soup in in a a pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Serve Serve each each chicken chicken breast breast and and some some of of the the cooked cooked fruit fruit and and red red bell bell pepper pepper over over equal equal portions portions of of the the Spanish Spanish rice rice , , and and topped topped with with a a few few spoonfuls spoonfuls black black bean bean soup soup . . Arrange Arrange the the reserved reserved uncooked uncooked fruit fruit and and pepper pepper slices slices around around the the rice rice . 
6 egg egg yolks yolks 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 5 5 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) cans cans evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can unsweetened unsweetened coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened cream cream of of coconut coconut ( ( such such as as Coco Coco Lopez® Lopez® ) ) 4 4 1/4 1/4 cups cups light light rum rum | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk egg egg yolks yolks until until smooth smooth . . Whisk Whisk in in cinnamon cinnamon and and vanilla vanilla Stir Stir in in coconut coconut milk milk , , cream cream of of coconut coconut , , sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk , , evaporated evaporated milk milk , , and and rum rum . . Taste Taste and and adjust adjust cinnamon cinnamon and and vanilla vanilla if if desired desired . . Blend Blend well well and and strain strain through through a a fine fine sieve sieve or or cheesecloth cheesecloth . . Pour Pour into into clean clean bottles bottles . . Serve Serve chilled chilled . 
1 cup cup uncooked uncooked long long grain grain white white rice rice 3 3 1/2 1/2 cups cups cold cold water water 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Place Place the the rice rice in in a a bowl bowl with with enough enough water water to to cover cover it it and and let let it it soak soak overnight overnight . . Strain Strain the the rice rice and and discard discard the the water water . . Stir Stir the the cold cold water water and and evaporated evaporated milk milk together together . . Place Place the the drained drained rice rice into into a a blender blender along along with with half half of of the the diluted diluted milk milk . . Blend Blend until until the the rice rice is is finely finely ground ground , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add the the sugar sugar , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and vanilla vanilla ; ; blend blend well well . . Pour Pour in in the the remaining remaining diluted diluted milk milk ; ; blend blend . . Line Line a a strainer strainer with with two two layers layers of of cheesecloth cheesecloth . . Place Place the the strainer strainer over over another another bowl bowl to to catch catch the the liquid liquid . . Strain Strain the the rice rice milk milk through through the the cheesecloth cheesecloth , , discard discard the the solids solids . . Repeat Repeat the the process process if if necessary necessary . . Serve Serve over over ice ice . 
1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 1/2 1/2 cup cup dark dark rum rum 1/2 1/2 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 cup cup Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon adobo adobo seasoning seasoning 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 2 2 ( ( .18 .18 ounce ounce ) ) packets packets sazon sazon with with coriander coriander and and achiote achiote 3 3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 cups cups corn corn oil oil for for frying frying | | Combine Combine the the chicken chicken , , rum rum , , lemon lemon juice juice , , garlic garlic , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , garlic garlic powder powder , , adobo adobo seasoning seasoning , , onion onion powder powder , , pepper pepper , , coriander coriander , , and and sazon sazon seasoning seasoning in in a a bowl bowl ; ; stir stir . . Cover Cover and and allow allow to to marinate marinate in in refrigerator refrigerator 4 4 hours hours . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat to to about about 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread the the flour flour into into the the bottom bottom of of a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Coat Coat each each piece piece of of marinated marinated chicken chicken with with flour flour . . Fry Fry the the coated coated chicken chicken pieces pieces in in the the hot hot oil oil in in small small batches batches until until no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and golden golden brown brown on on the the outside outside , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken chunks chunks , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped red red bell bell pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 cup cup raisins raisins 1/2 1/2 cup cup stuffed stuffed green green olives olives , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir onion onion in in hot hot oil oil until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes ; ; add add garlic garlic and and continue continue to to cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute more more . . Stir Stir tomatoes tomatoes , , chicken chicken , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , raisins raisins , , olives olives , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , oregano oregano , , cumin cumin , , and and bay bay leaves leaves into into the the onion onion mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until heated heated through through , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove and and discard discard bay bay leaves leaves before before serving serving . 
2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 graham graham cracker cracker crust crust , , unbaked unbaked 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups mango mango nectar nectar 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 cups cups ripe ripe mangoes mangoes , , peeled peeled , , pitted pitted , , and and diced diced | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix 3/4 3/4 cup cup of of sugar sugar into into the the cream cream cheese cheese . . Mix Mix in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the vanilla vanilla . . Pour Pour this this batter batter into into the the graham graham cracker cracker crust crust , , and and smooth smooth over over the the top top . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until the the edges edges have have puffed puffed up up but but the the middle middle still still jiggles jiggles , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Allow Allow to to cool cool for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , then then refrigerate refrigerate until until cold cold , , about about 3 3 hours hours . . While While the the cheesecake cheesecake is is baking baking , , pour pour 1 1 cup cup of of the the mango mango nectar nectar and and 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of sugar sugar into into a a saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , dissolving dissolving the the sugar sugar . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in the the remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of nectar nectar , , and and stir stir into into the the boiling boiling saucepan saucepan until until thickened thickened and and clear clear , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Place Place diced diced mango mango into into a a heatproof heatproof bowl bowl , , and and toss toss with with the the thickened thickened sauce sauce . . Allow Allow to to cool cool to to room room temperature temperature , , then then pour pour over over the the cheesecake cheesecake . . Serve Serve cold cold . 
1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can Mexican-seasoned Mexican-seasoned black black beans beans 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can light light coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen green green peas peas 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock or or water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fresh fresh lime lime juice juice | | In In a a stock stock pot pot or or large large saucepan saucepan , , combine combine the the black black beans beans , , coconut coconut milk milk , , peas peas and and stock stock or or water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then simmer simmer over over low low heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour into into a a blender blender and and puree puree until until smooth smooth . . Return Return to to the the pan pan and and stir stir in in the the lime lime juice juice . 
