3 1/2 1/2 boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cooked cooked and and diced diced 1 1 head head lettuce lettuce , , torn torn into into small small pieces pieces 4 4 green green onions onions , , sliced sliced 4 4 stalks stalks celery celery , , sliced sliced thin thin 1/2 1/2 cup cup walnuts walnuts , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame seeds seeds , , toasted toasted 6 6 ounces ounces Chinese Chinese noodles noodles , , heated heated briefly briefly to to crisp crisp 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons seasoned seasoned rice rice vinegar vinegar 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup peanut peanut oil oil | | In In a a large large salad salad bowl bowl combine combine the the chicken chicken , , lettuce lettuce , , green green onion onion , , celery celery , , nuts nuts , , seeds seeds and and noodles noodles . . Mix Mix all all together together . . Set Set aside aside . . To To Make Make Dressing Dressing : : Put Put vinegar vinegar in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Dissolve Dissolve sugar sugar and and salt salt in in vinegar vinegar before before adding adding oil oil . . Shake/Beat Shake/Beat well well . . Add Add dressing dressing to to salad salad and and toss toss to to coat coat . . Serve Serve and and enjoy enjoy ! 
3 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups boiling boiling water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Use Use a a fork fork to to mix mix flour flour and and boiling boiling water water in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Knead Knead dough dough into into a a ball ball . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap ; ; let let dough dough rest rest for for 30 30 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Evenly Evenly divide divide dough dough into into 16 16 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece into into a a 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick circle circle . . Brush Brush each each circle circle with with oil oil , , season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of green green onions onions . . Roll Roll up up , , cigar cigar style style , , and and pinch pinch open open ends ends together together to to form form a a circle circle . . Roll Roll each each circle circle flat flat to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch . . Heat Heat 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Fry Fry cakes cakes until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes on on each each side side . 
1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups cooked cooked white white rice rice , , cold cold 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup cooked cooked , , chopped chopped chicken chicken meat meat | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , beat beat egg egg with with water water . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium low low heat heat . . Add Add egg egg and and leave leave flat flat for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from skillet skillet and and cut cut into into shreds shreds . . Heat Heat oil oil in in same same skillet skillet ; ; add add onion onion and and saute saute until until soft soft . . Then Then add add rice rice , , soy soy sauce sauce , , pepper pepper and and chicken chicken . . Stir Stir fry fry together together for for about about 5 5 minutes minutes , , then then stir stir in in egg egg . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
1/2 pound pound thinly thinly sliced sliced pork pork loin loin 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup rice rice wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 4 4 dried dried Chinese Chinese black black mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried rice rice vermicelli vermicelli 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/4 1/4 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried small small shrimp shrimp 3 3 carrots carrots , , cut cut into into matchstick matchstick strips strips 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cups cups bean bean sprouts sprouts 4 4 leaves leaves napa napa cabbage cabbage , , thinly thinly sliced sliced salt salt to to taste taste 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh cilantro cilantro for for garnish garnish | | Place Place the the pork pork into into a a mixing mixing bowl bowl and and pour pour in in the the soy soy sauce sauce and and rice rice wine wine . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with the the white white pepper pepper , , five-spice five-spice powder powder , , and and cornstarch cornstarch . . Mix Mix well well , , then then set set aside aside to to marinate marinate . . Soak Soak the the mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl of of cold cold water water for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , then then pour pour off off the the water water , , cut cut off off and and discard discard the the stems stems of of the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Slice Slice the the mushrooms mushrooms thinly thinly and and reserve reserve . . Soak Soak the the rice rice vermicelli vermicelli in in a a separate separate bowl bowl of of cold cold water water for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then pour pour off off the the water water and and set set the the noodles noodles aside aside . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Pour Pour in in the the eggs eggs , , and and cook cook until until firm firm , , flipping flipping once once , , to to make make a a pancake pancake . . Remove Remove the the egg egg pancake pancake , , and and allow allow to to cool cool , , then then thinly thinly slice slice and and place place into into a a large large bowl bowl . . Heat Heat 2 2 more more tablespoons tablespoons of of the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in the the wok wok over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and dried dried shrimp shrimp , , and and cook cook until until the the shrimp shrimp become become aromatic aromatic , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds . . Next Next , , add add the the pork pork along along with with the the marinade marinade , , and and cook cook until until the the pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the carrots carrots and and onion onion , , and and cook cook until until the the carrots carrots begin begin to to soften soften , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Finally Finally , , add add the the bean bean sprouts sprouts , , napa napa cabbage cabbage , , and and sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the vegetables vegetables are are tender tender , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes more more . . Scrape Scrape the the pork pork mixture mixture into into the the bowl bowl along along with with the the eggs eggs , , then then wipe wipe out out the the wok wok and and return return it it to to the the stove stove over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining vegetable vegetable oil oil in in the the wok wok , , then then stir stir in in the the drained drained rice rice vermicelli vermicelli noodles noodles . . Cook Cook and and stir stir for for a a few few minutes minutes until until the the noodles noodles soften soften , , then then stir stir in in the the reserved reserved pork pork mixture mixture . . Scrape Scrape the the mixture mixture in in to to a a serving serving bowl bowl and and garnish garnish with with cilantro cilantro to to serve serve . 
3 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups boiling boiling water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Use Use a a fork fork to to mix mix flour flour and and boiling boiling water water in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Knead Knead dough dough into into a a ball ball . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap ; ; let let dough dough rest rest for for 30 30 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Evenly Evenly divide divide dough dough into into 16 16 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece into into a a 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick circle circle . . Brush Brush each each circle circle with with oil oil , , season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of green green onions onions . . Roll Roll up up , , cigar cigar style style , , and and pinch pinch open open ends ends together together to to form form a a circle circle . . Roll Roll each each circle circle flat flat to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch . . Heat Heat 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Fry Fry cakes cakes until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes on on each each side side . 
1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped and and divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 head head napa napa cabbage cabbage , , cored cored and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 cups cups low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Mix Mix the the ground ground pork pork , , egg egg , , cornstarch cornstarch , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of sesame sesame oil oil , , ginger ginger , , monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate , , salt salt , , and and half half of of the the chopped chopped green green onions onions together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Use Use your your hands hands to to mix mix until until the the ingredients ingredients are are evenly evenly distributed distributed . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . When When the the oil oil is is hot hot , , fry fry the the napa napa cabbage cabbage , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until cabbage cabbage begins begins to to wilt wilt , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the chicken chicken broth broth , , water water , , and and soy soy sauce sauce . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then lower lower the the heat heat to to medium medium . . Use Use a a spoon spoon to to form form the the meat meat mixture mixture into into 1 1 inch inch balls balls . . Drop Drop them them into into the the boiling boiling soup soup . . When When the the last last ball ball has has been been added added , , cover cover with with a a lid lid and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust salt salt before before serving serving . . Garnish Garnish with with remaining remaining green green onions onions and and a a drizzle drizzle of of sesame sesame oil oil . 
1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch , , dissolved dissolved in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 ounce ounce hot hot chile chile paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons brown brown sugar sugar 4 4 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can water water chestnuts chestnuts 4 4 ounces ounces chopped chopped peanuts peanuts | | To To Make Make Marinade Marinade : : Combine Combine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon wine wine , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch/water cornstarch/water mixture mixture and and mix mix together together . . Place Place chicken chicken pieces pieces in in a a glass glass dish dish or or bowl bowl and and add add marinade marinade . . Toss Toss to to coat coat . . Cover Cover dish dish and and place place in in refrigerator refrigerator for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . To To Make Make Sauce Sauce : : In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon wine wine , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch/water cornstarch/water mixture mixture , , chili chili paste paste , , vinegar vinegar and and sugar sugar . . Mix Mix together together and and add add green green onion onion , , garlic garlic , , water water chestnuts chestnuts and and peanuts peanuts . . In In a a medium medium skillet skillet , , heat heat sauce sauce slowly slowly until until aromatic aromatic . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , remove remove chicken chicken from from marinade marinade and and saute saute in in a a large large skillet skillet until until meat meat is is white white and and juices juices run run clear clear . . When When sauce sauce is is aromatic aromatic , , add add sauteed sauteed chicken chicken to to it it and and let let simmer simmer together together until until sauce sauce thickens thickens . 
100 ( ( 3.5 3.5 inch inch square square ) ) wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 1 1 3/4 3/4 pounds pounds ground ground pork pork 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons thinly thinly sliced sliced green green onion onion 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 5 5 cups cups finely finely shredded shredded Chinese Chinese cabbage cabbage | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the pork pork , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic , , green green onion onion , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , egg egg and and cabbage cabbage . . Stir Stir until until well well mixed mixed . . Place Place 1 1 heaping heaping teaspoon teaspoon of of pork pork filling filling onto onto each each wonton wonton skin skin . . Moisten Moisten edges edges with with water water and and fold fold edges edges over over to to form form a a triangle triangle shape shape . . Roll Roll edges edges slightly slightly to to seal seal in in filling filling . . Set Set dumplings dumplings aside aside on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface until until ready ready to to cook cook . . To To Cook Cook : : Steam Steam dumplings dumplings in in a a covered covered bamboo bamboo or or metal metal steamer steamer for for about about 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ketchup ketchup 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sake sake 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 pound pound pork pork spareribs spareribs | | In In a a shallow shallow glass glass dish dish , , mix mix together together the the hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , ketchup ketchup , , honey honey , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sake sake , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , lemon lemon juice juice , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic and and five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Place Place the the ribs ribs in in the the dish dish , , and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Cover Cover and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 2 2 hours hours , , or or as as long long as as overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fill Fill a a broiler broiler tray tray with with enough enough water water to to cover cover the the bottom bottom . . Place Place the the grate grate or or rack rack over over the the tray tray . . Arrange Arrange the the ribs ribs on on the the grate grate . . Place Place the the broiler broiler rack rack in in the the center center of of the the oven oven . . Cook Cook for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , turning turning and and brushing brushing with with the the marinade marinade every every 10 10 minutes minutes . . Let Let the the marinade marinade cook cook on on for for the the final final 10 10 minutes minutes to to make make a a glaze glaze . . Finish Finish under under the the broiler broiler if if desired desired . . Discard Discard any any remaining remaining marinade marinade . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , drained drained ( ( juice juice reserved reserved ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups water water , , divided divided 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 drops drops orange orange food food color color 8 8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch cubes cubes 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups self-rising self-rising flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1 1 egg egg 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 quart quart vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 2 2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces | | In In a a saucepan saucepan , , combine combine 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water , , sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , reserved reserved pineapple pineapple juice juice , , and and orange orange food food coloring coloring . . Heat Heat to to boiling boiling . . Turn Turn off off heat heat . . Combine Combine 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water ; ; slowly slowly stir stir into into saucepan saucepan . . Continue Continue stirring stirring until until mixture mixture thickens thickens . . Combine Combine flour flour , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch , , salt salt , , white white pepper pepper , , and and egg egg . . Add Add 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water gradually gradually to to make make a a thick thick batter batter . . Stir Stir to to blend blend thoroughly thoroughly . . Add Add chicken chicken pieces pieces , , and and stir stir until until chicken chicken is is well well coated coated . . Heat Heat oil oil in in skillet skillet or or wok wok to to 360 360 degrees degrees F F ( ( 180 180 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry chicken chicken pieces pieces in in hot hot oil oil 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . When When ready ready to to serve serve , , layer layer green green peppers peppers , , pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , and and cooked cooked chicken chicken pieces pieces on on a a platter platter . . Pour Pour hot hot sweet sweet and and sour sour sauce sauce over over top top . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder | | Mix Mix together together yeast yeast , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup flour flour , , and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup warm warm water water . . Allow Allow to to stand stand for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water , , flour flour , , salt salt , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Knead Knead until until dough dough surface surface is is smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Roll Roll over over in in a a greased greased bowl bowl , , and and let let stand stand until until triple triple in in size size , , about about 2 2 1/2 1/2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Punch Punch down down dough dough , , and and spread spread out out on on a a floured floured board board . . Sprinkle Sprinkle baking baking powder powder evenly evenly on on surface surface , , and and knead knead for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide dough dough into into 2 2 parts parts , , and and place place the the piece piece you you are are not not working working with with in in a a covered covered bowl bowl . . Divide Divide each each half half into into 12 12 parts parts . . Shape Shape each each part part into into a a ball ball with with smooth smooth surface surface up up . . Put Put each each ball ball on on a a wax wax paper paper square square . . Let Let stand stand covered covered until until double double , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in wok wok , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium ; ; the the water water should should still still be be boiling boiling . . Place Place steam-plate steam-plate on on a a small small wire wire rack rack in in the the middle middle of of the the wok wok . . Transfer Transfer as as many many buns buns on on wax wax paper paper as as will will comfortably comfortably fit fit onto onto steam-plate steam-plate leaving leaving 1 1 to to 2 2 inches inches between between the the buns buns . . At At least least 2 2 inches inches space space should should be be left left between between steam-plate steam-plate and and the the wok wok . . Cover Cover wok wok with with lid lid . . Steam Steam buns buns over over boiling boiling water water for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . REMOVE REMOVE LID LID BEFORE BEFORE you you turn turn off off heat heat , , or or else else water water will will drip drip back back onto onto bun bun surface surface and and produce produce yellowish yellowish `` `` blisters blisters '' '' on on bun bun surfaces surfaces . . Continue Continue steaming steaming batches batches of of buns buns until until all all are are cooked cooked . 
1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 13 13 pounds pounds fresh fresh green green beans beans , , trimmed trimmed 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarsely coarsely ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) bottles bottles black black bean bean sauce sauce | | In In a a large large wok wok , , heat heat oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in green green beans beans ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and then then stir stir in in black black bean bean sauce sauce . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until green green beans beans are are tender tender . 
1 pound pound pork pork butt butt , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch cubes cubes 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 egg egg white white 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 quart quart vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 stalks stalks celery celery , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch pieces pieces 1 1 medium medium green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , cut cut into into wedges wedges white white sugar sugar to to taste taste salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/3 1/3 cup cup apple apple cider cider vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , undrained undrained 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water | | Place Place cubed cubed pork pork in in a a medium medium bowl bowl , , and and season season with with 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce . . Mix Mix in in the the egg egg white white and and green green onions onions . . Cover Cover , , and and place place in in the the refrigerator refrigerator at at least least 1 1 hour hour . . Heat Heat 1 1 quart quart oil oil to to 365 365 degrees degrees F F ( ( 185 185 degrees degrees C C ) ) in in a a large large , , heavy heavy saucepan saucepan or or deep deep fryer fryer . . Coat Coat the the pork pork with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch , , and and fry fry in in the the heated heated oil oil about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the celery celery , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and onion onion , , and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Season Season with with salt salt and and sugar sugar . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , mix mix 1 1 cup cup water water , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , 3/4 3/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , apple apple cider cider vinegar vinegar , , ketchup ketchup , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and stir stir in in the the cooked cooked pork pork , , celery celery mixture mixture , , and and the the pineapple pineapple chunks chunks with with juice juice . . Return Return to to boil boil , , and and mix mix in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water to to thicken thicken . . Cook Cook until until well well blended blended . 
Filling : : 3/4 3/4 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock , , or or more more if if needed needed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon agar-agar agar-agar flakes flakes 1 1 piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , peeled peeled 1 1 spring spring onion onion , , sliced sliced 3/4 3/4 cup cup warm warm water water 9 9 ounces ounces ground ground chicken chicken 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cooking cooking wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper Dough Dough : : 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2/3 2/3 cup cup warm warm water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Combine Combine chicken chicken stock stock and and agar-agar agar-agar flakes flakes in in a a saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until agar-agar agar-agar is is dissolved dissolved , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Refrigerate Refrigerate and and chill chill and and until until set set , , 15 15 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Slightly Slightly smash smash ginger ginger with with the the blade blade of of a a broad broad knife knife to to bring bring out out flavor flavor . . Place Place ginger ginger and and spring spring onion onion in in 3/4 3/4 cup cup warm warm water water in in a a bowl bowl ; ; rub rub with with your your fingers fingers to to extract extract the the flavor flavor of of the the ginger ginger and and onion onion into into the the water water . . The The water water will will turn turn slightly slightly green green . . Drain Drain and and let let water water cool cool . . Mix Mix chicken chicken , , soy soy sauce sauce , , cooking cooking wine wine , , sesame sesame oil oil , , sugar sugar , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Gradually Gradually mix mix in in the the cooled cooled ginger-spring ginger-spring onion onion water water . . Mince Mince the the agar agar mixture mixture and and stir stir into into chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Cover Cover and and chill chill in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 4 4 hours hours . . Place Place flour flour in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in 2/3 2/3 cup cup warm warm water water and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Mix Mix until until a a smooth smooth dough dough forms forms ; ; cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut dough dough into into small small pieces pieces and and roll roll into into balls balls ; ; flatten flatten into into rounds rounds that that are are slightly slightly thicker thicker in in the the center center . . Spoon Spoon chicken chicken mixture mixture into into the the center center of of each each piece piece of of dough dough . . Draw Draw up up the the sides sides to to form form a a bag bag shape shape and and twist twist to to seal seal . . Place Place in in a a bamboo bamboo steamer steamer . . Steam Steam in in a a skillet skillet filled filled with with about about 1 1 inch inch of of water water over over high high heat heat until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package firm firm tofu tofu , , cut cut into into bite-sized bite-sized cubes cubes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili bean bean paste paste ( ( toban toban djan djan ) ) 1 1 ( ( 3/4 3/4 inch inch thick thick ) ) slice slice fresh fresh ginger ginger , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chile chile powder powder 1 1 cup cup water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 bunch bunch garlic garlic scapes scapes , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns , , or or to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a small small pot pot of of salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add tofu tofu ; ; boil boil for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep deep skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the chili chili bean bean paste paste until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add ginger ginger and and chile chile powder powder ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir tofu tofu into into the the skillet skillet ; ; pour pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic scapes scapes , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and salt salt . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon water water and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a small small bowl bowl until until cornstarch cornstarch is is dissolved dissolved . . Pour Pour into into the the skillet skillet and and stir stir gently gently until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle ground ground Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns on on top top . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 9 9 ounces ounces pork pork , , cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , divided divided 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 3 3 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sweet sweet bean bean paste paste 2 2 spring spring onions onions ( ( white white parts parts only only ) ) , , cut cut into into matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces | | Stir Stir 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Place Place pork pork in in shallow shallow bowl bowl and and add add cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt ; ; stir stir to to coat coat and and let let sit sit for for a a few few minutes minutes . . Mix Mix 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , MSG MSG , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl until until sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute pork pork until until pork pork is is cooked cooked through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Push Push pork pork to to a a side side ; ; add add sweet sweet bean bean paste paste . . Cook Cook and and stir stir bean bean paste paste until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in the the sauce sauce and and stir stir until until thickened thickened , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer pork pork mixture mixture to to a a dish dish and and top top with with spring spring onions onions . 
1/2 ( ( 2 2 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken 1 1 ( ( 3/4 3/4 inch inch thick thick ) ) slice slice fresh fresh ginger ginger , , crushed crushed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup chile chile oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Sichuan Sichuan peppercorn peppercorn oil oil 6 6 spring spring onions onions ( ( white white parts parts only only ) ) , , cut cut into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch pieces pieces 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon toasted toasted sesame sesame seeds seeds , , or or to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add chicken chicken and and cook cook for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and discard discard water water . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of fresh fresh water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add chicken chicken , , ginger ginger , , and and peppercorns peppercorns . . Add Add more more water water if if needed needed to to cover cover chicken chicken completely completely . . Cover Cover and and cook cook over over high high heat heat until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear , , 35 35 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and discard discard water water . . Horizontally Horizontally chop chop chicken chicken into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch pieces pieces , , cutting cutting through through the the bone bone and and skin skin . . Vertically Vertically chop chop into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch squares squares ; ; transfer transfer to to a a bowl bowl . . Combine Combine soy soy sauce sauce , , chile chile oil oil , , sugar sugar , , MSG MSG , , and and Sichuan Sichuan peppercorn peppercorn oil oil in in a a bowl bowl to to form form a a sauce sauce ; ; pour pour over over chicken chicken and and toss toss well well . . Garnish Garnish with with spring spring onions onions and and sesame sesame seeds seeds . 
4 dried dried scallops scallops 1 1 pound pound pork pork spare spare ribs ribs , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 3 3 lotus lotus roots roots , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 1/3-inch 1/3-inch slices slices water water to to cover cover salt salt to to taste taste | | Place Place dried dried scallops scallops in in a a small small bowl bowl and and cover cover with with water water . . Let Let soak soak until until softened softened , , 30 30 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . . Drain Drain and and cut cut into into small small pieces pieces . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pork pork spare spare ribs ribs ; ; cook cook for for 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and rinse rinse under under cold cold water water . . Combine Combine scallops scallops , , spare spare ribs ribs , , and and lotus lotus roots roots in in a a pot pot . . Add Add three three times times the the volume volume of of water water ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook at at a a boil boil for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and simmer simmer , , adding adding more more water water if if needed needed , , until until lotus lotus roots roots are are soft soft and and water water is is reduced reduced by by a a third third , , 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Stir Stir and and season season with with salt salt . 
1 pound pound whole whole sea sea bass bass - - cleaned cleaned , , rinsed rinsed , , and and patted patted dry dry salt salt to to taste taste 5 5 spring spring onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup peeled peeled and and thinly thinly sliced sliced ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup chile chile oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar | | Season Season sea sea bass bass with with salt salt . . Place Place 1/3 1/3 of of the the spring spring onions onions and and ginger ginger onto onto a a glass glass or or ceramic ceramic plate plate ; ; cover cover with with sea sea bass bass . . Scatter Scatter remaining remaining spring spring onions onions and and ginger ginger over over the the sea sea bass bass . . Bring Bring a a wide wide pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Set Set a a rack rack inside inside the the boiling boiling water water ; ; place place the the plate plate of of sea sea bass bass on on top top . . Cover Cover pot pot and and steam steam until until sea sea bass bass flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour out out any any water water that that may may have have collected collected on on the the plate plate . . Mix Mix soy soy sauce sauce , , chile chile oil oil , , and and sugar sugar together together in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over the the sea sea bass bass before before serving serving . 
2 pounds pounds pork pork chops chops water water to to cover cover 4 4 dried dried pitted pitted dates dates 1 1 ( ( 2 2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , peeled peeled 2 2 bunches bunches fresh fresh watercress watercress 8 8 fried fried fish fish balls balls , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt to to taste taste | | Place Place pork pork chops chops in in a a stockpot stockpot and and pour pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and rinse rinse any any residue residue on on pork pork chops chops with with cold cold water water . . Return Return pork pork chops chops to to stockpot stockpot and and pour pour in in enough enough cold cold water water to to take take up up twice twice the the space space as as the the pork pork chops chops . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 3 3 hours hours . . Place Place dates dates in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; soak soak for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Stir Stir dates dates and and ginger ginger into into the the stockpot stockpot ; ; add add watercress watercress and and fish fish balls balls and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Skim Skim off off any any scum scum from from the the top top of of the the soup soup ; ; season season with with salt salt . 
2 pounds pounds beef beef stew stew meat meat , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes water water to to cover cover 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or more more as as needed needed 8 8 cups cups water water , , or or more more as as needed needed 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth 1 1 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup rice rice wine wine 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 10 10 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled , , or or more more to to taste taste 4 4 small small chile chile peppers peppers , , halved halved and and seeded seeded , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chile chile paste paste 1 1 ( ( 1 1 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 5 5 pieces pieces 3 3 star star anise anise pods pods , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 4 4 small small heads heads baby baby bok bok choy choy 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package udon udon noodles noodles 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped pickled pickled Chinese Chinese mustard mustard greens greens , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Place Place beef beef in in a a stockpot stockpot and and pour pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and drain drain . . Pour Pour vegetable vegetable oil oil into into a a slow slow cooker cooker ; ; add add beef beef , , 8 8 cups cups water water , , beef beef broth broth , , soy soy sauce sauce , , rice rice wine wine , , green green onions onions , , brown brown sugar sugar , , garlic garlic , , chile chile peppers peppers , , chile chile paste paste , , ginger ginger , , star star anise anise , , and and Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 8 8 to to 9 9 hours hours . . Transfer Transfer beef beef to to a a bowl bowl with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon . . Strain Strain broth broth into into a a bowl bowl . . Discard Discard solids solids . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add bok bok choy choy for for 30 30 seconds seconds . . Remove Remove and and run run under under cold cold water water . . Cook Cook udon udon noodles noodles in in the the boiling boiling water water until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Divide Divide noodles noodles among among serving serving bowls bowls and and top top with with beef beef , , baby baby bok bok choy choy , , and and broth broth . . Top Top with with Chinese Chinese pickled pickled mustard mustard greens greens . 
Noodles : : 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried rice rice noodles noodles boiling boiling water water to to cover cover Sauce Sauce : : 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce Vegetables Vegetables : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 4 4 ounces ounces Japanese Japanese white white mushrooms mushrooms , , stemmed stemmed and and sliced sliced 4 4 ounces ounces baby baby cabbage cabbage , , shredded shredded 4 4 ounces ounces pickled pickled Chinese Chinese mustard mustard greens greens , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 head head lettuce lettuce , , shredded shredded 1 1 large large Japanese Japanese cucumber cucumber , , sliced sliced | | Place Place noodles noodles in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour in in enough enough boiling boiling water water to to cover cover ; ; soak soak until until noodles noodles are are softened softened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Mix Mix 1 1 cup cup water water , , chicken chicken bouillon bouillon , , and and soy soy sauce sauce in in a a bowl bowl until until sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir mushrooms mushrooms , , baby baby cabbage cabbage , , mustard mustard greens greens , , lettuce lettuce , , and and Japanese Japanese cucumber cucumber until until mushrooms mushrooms are are fragrant fragrant and and vegetables vegetables are are tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add noodles noodles and and sauce sauce ; ; cook cook and and stir stir using using a a long long wooden wooden chopstick chopstick until until sauce sauce has has nearly nearly evaporated evaporated , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 spring spring onions onions , , minced minced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , divided divided 1 1 small small head head romaine romaine lettuce lettuce , , leaves leaves separated separated 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat ; ; add add green green onions onions and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the garlic garlic . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add romaine romaine lettuce lettuce and and oyster oyster sauce sauce ; ; cook cook and and quickly quickly stir stir until until lettuce lettuce turns turns bright bright green green , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn heat heat to to medium medium . . Mix Mix remaining remaining garlic garlic and and salt salt into into lettuce lettuce mixture mixture and and stir stir . 
4 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 egg egg 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch cubes cubes 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch white white pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped green green onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 6 6 dried dried whole whole red red chilies chilies 1 1 strip strip orange orange zest zest 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons peanut peanut oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water | | Heat Heat 4 4 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the egg egg in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Add Add the the chicken chicken cubes cubes ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with salt salt , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , and and white white pepper pepper ; ; mix mix well well . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 cup cup of of cornstarch cornstarch a a little little bit bit at at a a time time until until the the chicken chicken cubes cubes are are well well coated coated . . In In batches batches , , carefully carefully drop drop the the chicken chicken cubes cubes into into the the hot hot oil oil one one by by one one , , cooking cooking until until they they turns turns golden golden brown brown and and begin begin to to float float , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken and and allow allow to to cool cool as as you you fry fry the the next next batch batch . . Once Once all all of of the the chicken chicken has has been been fried fried , , refry refry the the chicken chicken , , starting starting with with the the batch batch that that was was cooked cooked first first . . Cook Cook until until the the chicken chicken turns turns deep deep golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes more more . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the green green onion onion , , garlic garlic , , whole whole chiles chiles , , and and orange orange zest zest . . Cook Cook and and stir stir a a minute minute or or two two until until the the garlic garlic has has turned turned golden golden and and the the chiles chiles brighten brighten . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar , , the the ginger ginger , , chicken chicken broth broth , , vinegar vinegar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and peanut peanut oil oil ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil and and cook cook for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of cornstarch cornstarch into into the the water water , , and and stir stir into into the the boiling boiling sauce sauce . . Return Return to to a a boil boil and and cook cook until until the the sauce sauce thickens thickens and and is is no no longer longer cloudy cloudy from from the the cornstarch cornstarch , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir the the chicken chicken into into the the boiling boiling sauce sauce . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook for for a a few few minutes minutes until until the the chicken chicken absorbs absorbs some some of of the the sauce sauce . 
First Dough Dough : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons instant instant yeast yeast 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 2 2 cups cups cake cake flour flour , , divided divided Pork Pork Filling Filling : : 2/3 2/3 cup cup water water 3 3 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , peeled peeled and and minced minced 1 1 spring spring onion onion , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon corn corn flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground white white pepper pepper to to taste taste 7 7 ounces ounces Chinese Chinese barbeque barbeque pork pork , , cut cut into into very very thin thin slices slices Second Second ( ( Sweet Sweet ) ) Dough Dough : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup corn corn flour flour 3/8 3/8 cup cup cake cake flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon baking baking powder powder 3/8 3/8 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons cooking cooking oil oil | | Combine Combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water , , yeast yeast , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sugar sugar , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cake cake flour flour in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; let let stand stand until until top top is is beginning beginning to to form form a a layer layer of of white white foam foam , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add remaining remaining cake cake flour flour ( ( 2 2 cups cups minus minus the the 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ) ) and and stir stir gently gently using using chopsticks chopsticks until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Knead Knead dough dough until until smooth smooth . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let first first dough dough stand stand in in a a warm warm place place for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Mix Mix 2/3 2/3 cup cup water water , , ginger ginger , , spring spring onion onion , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sugar sugar , , all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon corn corn flour flour , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and white white pepper pepper in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool filling filling to to room room temperature temperature ; ; refrigerate refrigerate . . Spoon Spoon chilled chilled filling filling over over pork pork ; ; mix mix well well . . Sift Sift 1/2 1/2 cup cup corn corn flour flour , , 3/8 3/8 cup cup cake cake flour flour , , and and baking baking powder powder together together into into a a bowl bowl . . Add Add 3/8 3/8 cup cup sugar sugar and and cooking cooking oil oil and and mix mix well well . . Mix Mix corn corn flour flour mixture mixture into into first first dough dough , , kneading kneading until until smooth smooth . . Roll Roll dough dough into into a a ball ball . . Cover Cover ball ball with with an an inverted inverted bowl bowl and and let let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide dough dough into into 12 12 to to 15 15 pieces pieces and and roll roll each each into into a a ball ball . . Flatten Flatten the the balls balls into into rounds rounds . . Spoon Spoon 1 1 to to 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons filling filling into into the the center center of of each each round round and and fold fold round round around around filling filling and and seal seal . . It It 's 's fine fine if if the the top top is is a a bit bit thick thick , , it it just just helps helps create create the the top top flower flower look look . . Line Line bamboo bamboo steamers steamers with with parchment parchment paper paper and and arrange arrange buns buns on on top top . . Set Set aside aside in in a a warm warm place place for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Close Close lids lids tightly tightly . . Bring Bring 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 quarts quarts water water to to a a boil boil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Place Place steamers steamers in in the the wok wok and and steam steam buns buns over over medium medium heat heat until until cooked cooked through through , , 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1/2 cup cup sticky sticky rice rice 1 1 egg egg 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce salt salt to to taste taste 4 4 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon pork pork stock stock , , or or as as needed needed 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried goji goji berries berries ( ( wolfberries wolfberries ) ) , , or or to to taste taste | | Rinse Rinse sticky sticky rice rice and and place place in in a a bowl bowl ; ; cover cover with with water water . . Soak Soak rice rice for for at at least least 3 3 hours hours . . Drain Drain . . Beat Beat egg egg in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; mix mix in in ginger ginger root root , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and salt salt . . Add Add pork pork , , cornstarch cornstarch , , and and pork pork stock stock ; ; stir stir in in 1 1 direction direction until until combined combined , , 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Roll Roll pork pork mixture mixture into into bite-size bite-size balls balls . . Pour Pour enough enough water water into into the the bottom bottom of of a a wok wok to to cover cover by by about about 1 1 inch inch ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer . . Roll Roll pork pork balls balls in in sticky sticky rice rice until until they they are are coated coated completely completely . . Place Place 6 6 balls balls in in a a steamer steamer basket basket . . Place Place steamer steamer in in the the wok wok and and steam steam until until pork pork is is cooked cooked through through and and rice rice is is tender tender , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove balls balls and and garnish garnish with with goji goji berries berries . 
1 pound pound pork pork spare spare ribs ribs , , cut cut into into 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons rice rice wine wine , , divided divided 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Chinese Chinese black black vinegar vinegar | | Combine Combine pork pork ribs ribs , , soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine , , and and salt salt in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Marinate Marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or deep deep saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook ribs ribs in in the the hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown and and no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring remaining remaining 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine , , sugar sugar , , and and water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Stir Stir in in ribs ribs ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in black black vinegar vinegar . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce thickens thickens and and coats coats the the ribs ribs , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . 
5 dried dried red red chile chile peppers peppers 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 spring spring onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons hot hot chile chile oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soft soft dark dark brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese black black vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon toasted toasted white white sesame sesame seeds seeds 2 2 cucumbers cucumbers - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch strips strips | | Heat Heat a a dry dry skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add red red chile chile peppers peppers ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Let Let cool cool and and transfer transfer to to a a spice spice grinder grinder ; ; pulse pulse until until coarsely coarsely ground ground . . Mix Mix ground ground chile chile peppers peppers , , soy soy sauce sauce , , spring spring onion onion , , sesame sesame oil oil , , hot hot chile chile oil oil , , brown brown sugar sugar , , garlic garlic , , black black vinegar vinegar , , and and sesame sesame seeds seeds together together in in a a bowl bowl to to make make dressing dressing . . Place Place cucumbers cucumbers on on a a serving serving plate plate . . Pour Pour dressing dressing on on top top and and toss toss well well . . Let Let sit sit before before serving serving , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . 
3 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon powdered powdered gelatin gelatin 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Chinese Chinese rock rock sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) can can lychees lychees , , drained drained and and diced diced , , syrup syrup reserved reserved 1 1 cup cup whole whole milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons whole whole milk milk | | Combine Combine 3 3 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold water water and and gelatin gelatin in in a a small small microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl ; ; let let stand stand until until gelatin gelatin starts starts to to dissolve dissolve , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Warm Warm the the water water in in the the microwave microwave to to dissolve dissolve the the gelatin gelatin completely completely , , 5 5 to to 10 10 seconds seconds . . Bring Bring 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water to to a a boil boil in in a a small small pot pot . . Stir Stir in in rock rock sugar sugar until until dissolved dissolved . . Stir Stir in in lychees lychees and and 1 1 1/4 1/4 cup cup reserved reserved syrup syrup . . Combine Combine gelatin gelatin mixture mixture , , lychee lychee mixture mixture , , and and 1 1 cup cup plus plus 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk in in a a bowl bowl . . Pour Pour into into a a container container and and chill chill until until set set , , about about 4 4 hours hours . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Shaoxing Shaoxing cooking cooking wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon pureed pureed kiwi kiwi 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Chinese Chinese dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Thai Thai chile chile sauce sauce 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , grated grated 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds pork pork belly belly , , skin skin removed removed | | Mix Mix honey honey , , cooking cooking wine wine , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , kiwi kiwi , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , chile chile sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , and and five-spice five-spice powder powder together together in in a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Add Add pork pork belly belly . . Seal Seal bag bag , , pressing pressing out out as as much much air air as as possible possible . . Place Place bag bag on on a a plate plate and and marinate marinate pork pork belly belly in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , flipping flipping occasionally occasionally , , for for at at least least 2 2 days days . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 275 275 degrees degrees F F ( ( 135 135 degrees degrees C C ) ) with with a a rack rack in in the the upper upper third third of of the the oven oven . . Set Set a a wire wire rack rack on on a a rimmed rimmed baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place pork pork belly belly on on the the wire wire rack rack , , reserving reserving marinade marinade . . Bake Bake pork pork belly belly in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the internal internal temperature temperature reaches reaches 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 71 71 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove pork pork belly belly from from the the oven oven ; ; baste baste with with reserved reserved marinade marinade . . Move Move oven oven rack rack to to the the top top position position and and preheat preheat the the oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Broil Broil pork pork until until it it is is dark dark and and glossy glossy and and the the edges edges start start to to blacken blacken , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip and and baste baste on on the the second second side side . . Continue Continue broiling broiling until until second second side side darkens darkens and and starts starts to to blacken blacken , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Slice Slice with with a a sharp sharp knife knife . 
3 quarts quarts water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups medium-grain medium-grain rice rice 5 5 ounces ounces white white fish fish , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks 1 1 ( ( 3 3 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 spring spring onion onion , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste | | Combine Combine water water and and rice rice in in a a large large pot pot over over high high heat heat . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer until until rice rice is is tender tender , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine fish fish , , ginger ginger , , spring spring onion onion , , chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules , , and and pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl . . Let Let marinate marinate for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir fish fish mixture mixture into into the the pot pot . . Simmer Simmer gently gently until until rice rice is is very very soft soft and and fish fish is is falling falling apart apart , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with parsley parsley and and salt salt . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch white white sugar sugar 1 1 pound pound choy choy sum sum 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , divided divided , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Shaoxing Shaoxing wine wine 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch , , or or more more to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a large large saucepan saucepan of of water water , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt , , and and 1 1 pinch pinch sugar sugar to to a a boil boil . . Add Add choy choy sum sum and and cook cook for for 30 30 seconds seconds . . Drain Drain , , pressing pressing gently gently to to squeeze squeeze out out excess excess water water . . Place Place choy choy sum sum on on a a serving serving dish dish . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oil oil in in a a wok wok or or skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir garlic garlic until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , Shaoxing Shaoxing wine wine , , soy soy sauce sauce , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , and and monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Mix Mix remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour into into the the wok wok ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over the the choy choy sum sum . 
11 ounces ounces skin-on skin-on , , boneless boneless pork pork belly belly 1 1 ( ( 3/4 3/4 inch inch thick thick ) ) slice slice fresh fresh ginger ginger , , lightly lightly smashed smashed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons chile chile bean bean sauce sauce ( ( toban toban djan djan ) ) 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sweet sweet bean bean paste paste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Place Place pork pork belly belly into into a a pot pot and and cover cover with with water water . . Add Add ginger ginger and and Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low . . Cover Cover and and cook cook until until some some of of the the fat fat has has rendered rendered out out , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the pork pork from from the the pot pot and and cool cool to to room room temperature temperature , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Cut Cut the the pork pork into into thin thin slices slices , , about about 1/8 1/8 inch inch thick thick . . Return Return pork pork slices slices to to pot pot . . Stir Stir in in chile chile bean bean paste paste , , sweet sweet bean bean paste paste , , and and sugar sugar . . Cover Cover and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat until until the the pork pork is is tender tender , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir green green bell bell pepper pepper and and salt salt until until starting starting to to soften soften , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a dish dish . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir pork pork until until pieces pieces begin begin to to shrink shrink and and brown brown , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Return Return green green bell bell pepper pepper to to the the wok wok . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . 
1 3/4 3/4 ounces ounces dried dried shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ounce ounce dried dried cloud cloud ear ear mushrooms mushrooms 1/2 1/2 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package silken silken tofu tofu , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch cubes cubes 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , cut cut into into thin thin matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 10 10 fluid fluid ounces ounces chicken chicken stock stock 2 2 ounces ounces cooked cooked ham ham , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Shaoxing Shaoxing cooking cooking wine wine salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons corn corn flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil | | Place Place shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms and and cloud cloud ear ear mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl of of water water ; ; soak soak until until softened softened , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and finely finely chop chop the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add tofu tofu and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute . . Remove Remove using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and place place in in a a bowl bowl . . Bring Bring water water back back to to a a boil boil and and add add bamboo bamboo shoots shoots ; ; cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute . . Drain Drain and and set set bamboo bamboo shoots shoots aside aside . . Mix Mix vinegar vinegar and and white white pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Bring Bring chicken chicken stock stock to to a a boil boil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Add Add bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , mushrooms mushrooms , , and and ham ham ; ; return return to to a a boil boil . . Add Add tofu tofu , , soy soy sauce sauce , , Shaoxing Shaoxing wine wine , , and and salt salt ; ; bring bring back back to to a a boil boil . . Mix Mix corn corn flour flour and and water water together together in in a a bowl bowl until until dissolved dissolved ; ; stir stir into into chicken chicken stock stock mixture mixture until until soup soup starts starts to to thicken thicken . . Drizzle Drizzle beaten beaten eggs eggs into into soup soup , , stirring stirring gently gently to to form form cooked cooked egg egg clumps clumps , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir vinegar-pepper vinegar-pepper mixture mixture into into soup soup and and drizzle drizzle in in sesame sesame oil oil . 
1/3 cup cup oyster oyster sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Asian Asian ( ( toasted toasted ) ) sesame sesame oil oil 1/3 1/3 cup cup sherry sherry 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 3/4 3/4 pound pound beef beef round round steak steak , , cut cut into into 1/8-inch 1/8-inch thick thick strips strips 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , plus plus more more if if needed needed 1 1 thin thin slice slice of of fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and smashed smashed 1 1 pound pound broccoli broccoli , , cut cut into into florets florets | | Whisk Whisk together together the the oyster oyster sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , sherry sherry , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , and and cornstarch cornstarch in in a a bowl bowl , , and and stir stir until until the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Place Place the the steak steak pieces pieces into into a a shallow shallow bowl bowl , , pour pour the the oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture over over the the meat meat , , stir stir to to coat coat well well , , and and marinate marinate for for at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes in in refrigerator refrigerator . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and stir stir in in the the ginger ginger and and garlic garlic . . Let Let them them sizzle sizzle in in the the hot hot oil oil for for about about 1 1 minute minute to to flavor flavor the the oil oil , , then then remove remove and and discard discard . . Stir Stir in in the the broccoli broccoli , , and and toss toss and and stir stir in in the the hot hot oil oil until until bright bright green green and and almost almost tender tender , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the broccoli broccoli from from the the wok wok , , and and set set aside aside . . Pour Pour a a little little more more oil oil into into the the wok wok , , if if needed needed , , and and stir stir and and toss toss the the beef beef with with the the marinade marinade until until the the sauce sauce forms forms a a glaze glaze on on the the beef beef , , and and the the meat meat is is no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Return Return the the cooked cooked broccoli broccoli to to the the wok wok , , and and stir stir until until the the meat meat and and broccoli broccoli are are heated heated through through , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package soft soft tofu tofu , , cut cut into into 1/3-inch 1/3-inch cubes cubes 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water , , or or as as needed needed 6 6 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 spring spring onions onions , , roughly roughly chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 3/4 3/4 inch inch thick thick ) ) slice slice fresh fresh ginger ginger , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Sichuan Sichuan peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 5 5 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon doubanjiang doubanjiang ( ( spicy spicy broad broad bean bean paste paste ) ) 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons rice rice wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste | | Place Place tofu tofu in in a a bowl bowl and and cover cover with with boiling boiling water water . . Let Let sit sit for for 1 1 minute minute ; ; drain drain . . Mix Mix water water and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a bowl bowl to to make make a a runny runny paste paste . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir spring spring onions onions , , ginger ginger , , peppercorns peppercorns , , and and garlic garlic until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in ground ground pork pork , , doubanjiang doubanjiang paste paste , , rice rice wine wine , , and and soy soy sauce sauce ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until pork pork is is browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir drained drained tofu tofu into into the the wok wok or or skillet skillet . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until coated coated with with sauce sauce , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Pour Pour in in cornstarch cornstarch paste paste and and mix mix well well until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 1 1 minute minute . 
8 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Place Place flour flour in in a a large large bowl bowl and and gradually gradually mix mix in in water water . . Mix Mix until until dough dough comes comes together together ; ; knead knead until until smooth smooth , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let rest rest for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Knead Knead dough dough again again for for 2 2 minutes minutes ; ; cover cover and and let let rest rest for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Knead Knead dough dough one one more more time time for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide into into 4 4 equal equal pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece into into a a 1/3-inch-thick 1/3-inch-thick sheet sheet . . Brush Brush both both sides sides of of each each sheet sheet with with oil oil . . Stack Stack sheet sheet together together ; ; cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let rest rest for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Fill Fill a a large large saucepan saucepan with with water water and and bring bring to to the the boil boil . . Place Place one one sheet sheet of of dough dough on on a a cutting cutting board board and and slice slice into into 1/8-inch-wide 1/8-inch-wide strips strips . . Take Take one one end end of of a a strip strip in in each each hand hand and and stretch stretch it it until until it it is is 33 33 inches inches long long . . Fold Fold it it in in thirds thirds and and stretch stretch again again to to the the same same length length ; ; shake shake and and slap slap against against the the counter counter several several times times to to lengthen lengthen it it to to 6 6 1/2 1/2 feet feet . . Drop Drop it it into into the the boiling boiling water water . . Add Add 2 2 to to 3 3 more more strips strips of of noodles noodles to to the the boiling boiling water water ; ; cook cook until until tender tender , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer drained drained noodles noodles to to a a serving serving bowl bowl . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining sheets sheets of of dough dough . 
1 ( ( 2 2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , at at room room temperature temperature 1 1 cup cup whole whole milk milk 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste | | Peel Peel and and grate grate ginger ginger . . Squeeze Squeeze grated grated ginger ginger pieces pieces to to release release juice juice ; ; measure measure 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ginger ginger juice juice and and transfer transfer to to a a bowl bowl . . Place Place milk milk in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; heat heat until until temperature temperature reaches reaches 160 160 degrees degrees F F to to 170 170 degrees degrees F F ( ( 71 71 degrees degrees C C to to 77 77 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add sugar sugar and and stir stir until until dissolved dissolved ; ; pour pour into into the the bowl bowl with with ginger ginger juice juice . . Stir Stir mixture mixture immediately immediately and and cover cover with with a a small small plate plate . . Cover Cover the the covered covered bowl bowl with with a a clean clean towel towel ; ; let let sit sit for for at at least least 7 7 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound pork pork neck neck bones bones 10 10 cups cups water water 2 2 large large potatoes potatoes , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 large large tomatoes tomatoes , , quartered quartered 1 1 onion onion , , quartered quartered 1 1 large large carrot carrot , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar salt salt to to taste taste | | Place Place pork pork neck neck bones bones into into a a large large pot pot ; ; cover cover with with water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and skim skim scum scum off off the the surface surface with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon . . Drain Drain . . Return Return bones bones to to the the pot pot . . Add Add 10 10 cups cups water water , , potatoes potatoes , , tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , and and carrot carrot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer soup soup until until flavors flavors combine combine , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Season Season with with sugar sugar and and salt salt . 
3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pinch pinch kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons red red chile chile oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Szechuan Szechuan peppercorn peppercorn oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 cup cup soybean soybean sprouts sprouts 1 1 cup cup Chinese Chinese noodles noodles ( ( La La mian mian ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Combine Combine garlic garlic and and kosher kosher salt salt together together in in a a small small bowl bowl or or mortar mortar . . Grind Grind the the garlic garlic mixture mixture with with a a wide wide spoon spoon or or pestle pestle until until paste paste is is formed formed . . Combine Combine garlic garlic paste paste , , soy soy sauce sauce , , red red chile chile oil oil , , peppercorn peppercorn oil oil , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , and and sesame sesame oil oil in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; stir stir until until sauce sauce is is well well mixed mixed . . Fill Fill a a bowl bowl with with cold cold water water . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; stir stir in in bean bean sprouts sprouts . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until softened softened slightly slightly , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain . . Submerge Submerge bean bean sprouts sprouts in in the the cold cold water water until until cool cool . . Transfer Transfer to to a a serving serving bowl bowl . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a pot pot ; ; stir stir in in noodles noodles . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until noodles noodles are are softened softened , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain . . Submerge Submerge noodles noodles in in the the cold cold water water until until cool cool . . Transfer Transfer noodles noodles to to a a bowl bowl ; ; mix mix in in vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Place Place noodles noodles on on top top of of the the bean bean sprouts sprouts . . Pour Pour sauce sauce onto onto noodles noodles ; ; mix mix until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , divided divided 1 1 whole whole chicken chicken 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 20 20 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger , , divided divided 2 2 spring spring onions onions , , cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch pieces pieces 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 3/4 3/4 cups cups white white rice rice 2 2 pandan pandan leaves leaves | | Rub Rub about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt all all over over chicken chicken . . Fill Fill a a large large pot pot with with water water ; ; add add garlic garlic , , 15 15 ginger ginger slices slices , , spring spring onions onions , , and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil . . Bring Bring liquid liquid to to a a boil boil . . Carefully Carefully lower lower chicken chicken into into pot pot . . Return Return liquid liquid to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat until until chicken chicken is is fully fully cooked cooked , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from pot pot and and transfer transfer to to a a bowl bowl of of ice ice water water , , reserving reserving chicken chicken broth broth . . Combine Combine 3 3 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth , , rice rice , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil , , pandan pandan leaves leaves , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt in in a a rice rice cooker cooker ; ; cook cook according according to to manufacturer manufacturer 's 's instructions instructions until until rice rice is is tender tender . . Serve Serve rice rice alongside alongside chicken chicken . 
1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken salt salt to to taste taste water water to to cover cover 1 1 onion onion , , halved halved ( ( skin skin on on ) ) 8 8 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger , , sliced sliced salt salt and and ground ground white white pepper pepper to to taste taste Rice Rice : : 3 3 cups cups long-grain long-grain white white rice rice 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oil oil 5 5 pandan pandan leaves leaves , , knotted knotted Dipping Dipping Sauces Sauces : : 3 3 fresh fresh red red chile chile peppers peppers , , halved halved and and seeded seeded 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced , , or or as as needed needed 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1 1 slice slice fresh fresh ginger ginger Garnish Garnish : : 10 10 leaves leaves lettuce lettuce , , or or as as desired desired 1 1 cucumber cucumber , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 1 1 tomato tomato , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil | | Remove Remove fat fat from from the the chicken chicken and and reserve reserve it it for for later later use use . . Season Season chicken chicken , , inside inside and and out out , , with with salt salt . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add chicken chicken , , onion onion , , 8 8 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , sliced sliced 1-inch 1-inch piece piece ginger ginger , , salt salt , , and and white white pepper pepper . . Bring Bring liquid liquid back back to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is fully fully cooked cooked , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Carefully Carefully remove remove chicken chicken and and plunge plunge into into a a large large bowl bowl of of ice ice water water until until cooled cooled . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , dry dry , , and and cut cut chicken chicken into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces . . Strain Strain chicken chicken broth broth and and reserve reserve liquid liquid . . Wash Wash and and drain drain rice rice . . Heat Heat reserved reserved chicken chicken fat fat in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir 5 5 sliced sliced garlic garlic cloves cloves and and sliced sliced 1/2-inch 1/2-inch piece piece ginger ginger until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add rice rice and and oil oil ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until rice rice is is coated coated in in oil oil . . Pour Pour in in enough enough reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth to to cook cook rice rice , , about about 6 6 cups cups . . Add Add pandan pandan leaves leaves . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and cook cook rice rice until until tender tender and and broth broth is is absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Pound Pound red red chile chile peppers peppers using using a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle , , adding adding a a small small amount amount of of salt salt , , until until peppers peppers transform transform into into a a fine fine paste paste . . Stir Stir enough enough lime lime juice juice into into paste paste to to make make smooth smooth ; ; transfer transfer to to a a serving serving dish dish . . Pound Pound 4 4 garlic garlic cloves cloves and and 1 1 slice slice ginger ginger using using a a mortar mortar and and pestle pestle until until paste paste is is formed formed ; ; transfer transfer to to a a separate separate serving serving dish dish . . Place Place lettuce lettuce leaves leaves on on a a serving serving plate plate and and arrange arrange cucumber cucumber slices slices and and tomatoes tomatoes around around dish dish . . Place Place the the chicken chicken pieces pieces in in the the center center . . Mix Mix soy soy sauce sauce and and sesame sesame oil oil together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over chicken chicken . . Serve Serve a a bowl bowl of of reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth on on the the side side with with a a bowl bowl of of rice rice and and the the 2 2 dipping dipping sauces sauces . 
2 small small dried dried cloud cloud ear ear mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 4 4 ounces ounces pork pork fillet fillet , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 4 4 ounces ounces canned canned bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , drained drained and and chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sake sake ( ( Japanese Japanese rice rice wine wine ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons black black rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chile chile paste paste 3 3 eggs eggs 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Place Place mushrooms mushrooms in in a a small small bowl bowl and and cover cover with with water water . . Let Let soak soak until until softened softened , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces . . Bring Bring 1 1 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water to to a a boil boil in in a a pot pot . . Add Add pork pork and and bamboo bamboo shots shots . . Cook Cook , , skimming skimming off off any any fat fat that that rises rises to to the the top top , , until until pork pork is is tender tender , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix sugar sugar , , sake sake , , soy soy sauce sauce , , black black rice rice vinegar vinegar , , and and chile chile paste paste together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Stir Stir into into the the pot pot . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer soup soup , , covered covered , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir mushroom mushroom pieces pieces into into the the soup soup . . Crack Crack in in eggs eggs and and cook cook , , covered covered , , until until whites whites are are firm firm and and the the yolks yolks have have thickened thickened but but are are not not hard hard , , 2 2 1/2 1/2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drizzle Drizzle sesame sesame oil oil over over soup soup before before serving serving . 
For the the Chicken Chicken : : 1 1 whole whole chicken chicken 1 1 stalk stalk spring spring onion onion ( ( optional optional ) ) 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root ( ( optional optional ) ) water water to to cover cover salt salt to to taste taste For For the the Soy Soy Sauce Sauce : : 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic oil oil ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil For For the the Rice Rice : : 3 3 cups cups uncooked uncooked rice rice , , or or more more to to taste taste 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece ginger ginger , , crushed crushed salt salt to to taste taste For For the the Garlic Garlic Chile Chile Dip Dip : : 5 5 red red chile chile peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) piece piece ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch white white sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste Ginger Ginger Dip Dip : : 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece young young ginger ginger 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Trim Trim chicken chicken of of all all excess excess fat fat , , reserving reserving fat fat . . Place Place chicken chicken , , spring spring onion onion , , 3 3 cloves cloves crushed crushed garlic garlic , , and and one one 1-inch 1-inch piece piece ginger ginger in in a a large large pot pot . . Pour Pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer , , skimming skimming any any scum scum off off the the surface surface , , until until an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone , , reads reads 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from the the pot pot , , reserving reserving broth broth . . Rub Rub chicken chicken with with salt salt . . Chop Chop into into pieces pieces and and arrange arrange on on a a serving serving plate plate . . Combine Combine soy soy sauce sauce , , 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon sugar sugar , , garlic garlic oil oil , , and and sesame sesame oil oil in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Drizzle Drizzle over over chicken chicken pieces pieces . . Melt Melt reserved reserved chicken chicken fat fat in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add rice rice , , 3 3 cloves cloves minced minced garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1-inch 1-inch piece piece ginger ginger , , and and salt salt ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until rice rice is is glossy glossy and and fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour enough enough reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth into into the the pot pot to to cover cover rice rice by by half half an an inch inch . . Cover Cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook until until rice rice is is tender tender and and liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Let Let rice rice sit sit , , covered covered , , for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Fluff Fluff with with a a fork fork . . Combine Combine red red chile chile peppers peppers , , juice juice of of 2 2 limes limes , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth , , 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , one one 1/2-inch 1/2-inch piece piece ginger ginger , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and 1 1 pinch pinch sugar sugar in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until garlic garlic chile chile dip dip is is smooth smooth . . Combine Combine juice juice of of 2 2 limes limes , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth , , 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , one one 1-inch 1-inch piece piece ginger ginger , , and and 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until ginger ginger dip dip is is smooth smooth . . Serve Serve garlic garlic chile chile and and ginger ginger dips dips alongside alongside chicken chicken and and rice rice . 
1 pound pound pork pork belly belly , , sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 3 3 inch inch ) ) cinnamon cinnamon stick stick 3 3 whole whole star star anise anise 1/4 1/4 cup cup light light soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup Shaoxing Shaoxing rice rice wine wine 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste 10 10 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water , , or or as as needed needed | | Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add pork pork belly belly . . Cook Cook until until pork pork belly belly softens softens , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and cool cool pork pork until until easily easily handled handled , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut into into 2-inch 2-inch chunks chunks . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Add Add cinnamon cinnamon stick stick and and star star anise anise ; ; fry fry until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir in in pork pork belly belly , , light light soy soy sauce sauce , , Shaoxing Shaoxing wine wine , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , and and garlic garlic . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to very very low low and and simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally and and adding adding water water if if sauce sauce reduces reduces too too quickly quickly , , until until pork pork is is tender tender , , about about 50 50 minutes minutes . . Increase Increase heat heat slightly slightly and and continue continue simmering simmering until until sauce sauce reduces reduces to to a a sticky sticky consistency consistency , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cinnamon cinnamon stick stick and and star star anise anise ; ; discard discard . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried rice rice noodles noodles 1 1 head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce - - rinsed rinsed , , dried dried , , and and chopped chopped 4 4 boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cooked cooked and and shredded shredded 3 3 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame seeds seeds , , toasted toasted | | Prepare Prepare the the dressing dressing 30 30 minutes minutes ahead ahead of of time time by by combining combining the the brown brown sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , salad salad oil oil , , and and rice rice vinegar vinegar in in a a salad salad dressing dressing carafe carafe . . To To prepare prepare the the Chinese Chinese rice rice noodles noodles , , heat heat a a skillet skillet with with a a few few tablespoons tablespoons of of oil oil and and break break off off a a little little bit bit of of the the noodles noodles and and add add them them to to the the skillet skillet and and fry fry them them . . They They will will puff puff up up in in the the skillet skillet , , so so only only add add a a few few at at a a time time . . As As they they begin begin to to puff puff up up , , remove remove and and drain drain them them on on paper paper towels towels . . Be Be sure sure to to cook cook long long enough enough as as the the under under cooked cooked noodles noodles will will be be like like eating eating needles needles . . Once Once cooked cooked , , add add them them to to the the salad salad mixture mixture . . In In a a large large bowl bowl combine combine the the iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce , , cooked cooked and and shredded shredded chicken chicken , , green green onions onions and and toasted toasted sesame sesame seeds seeds . . Let Let chill chill about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , and and just just before before serving serving add add the the cooked cooked rice rice noodles noodles . . Serve Serve in in salad salad bowls bowls and and offer offer the the dressing dressing in in a a pourable pourable container container so so your your family family can can add add as as much much dressing dressing as as they they want want . . You You can can also also pour pour the the dressing dressing over over the the top top of of the the salad salad , , toss toss , , and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds pork pork belly belly , , cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup Shaoxing Shaoxing rice rice wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup light light soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 scallions scallions , , halved halved 4 4 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger 4 4 star star anise anise pods pods water water to to cover cover 1/2 1/2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package vegetarian vegetarian chicken chicken substitute substitute , , diced diced ( ( optional optional ) ) 6 6 hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , peeled peeled ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Fill Fill a a large large pot pot with with water water and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pork pork belly belly ; ; cook cook until until starting starting to to soften soften , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil and and brown brown sugar sugar in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until sugar sugar is is melted melted . . Add Add pork pork ; ; cook cook until until browned browned on on all all sides sides , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add dark dark soy soy sauce sauce ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer pork pork mixture mixture to to a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Add Add rice rice wine wine , , light light soy soy sauce sauce , , scallions scallions , , ginger ginger , , and and star star anise anise . . Pour Pour in in enough enough water water to to just just cover cover the the pork pork . . Cook Cook on on Low Low until until pork pork is is tender tender , , about about 6 6 hours hours . . Add Add diced diced chicken chicken substitute substitute , , hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , and and more more water water to to cover cover . . Cook Cook on on Low Low until until eggs eggs absorb absorb cooking cooking liquid liquid , , rotating rotating halfway halfway through through , , about about 1 1 hour hour more more . 
6 leaves leaves stem stem lettuce lettuce ( ( celtuce celtuce ) ) , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 pound pound lean lean pork pork , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch cubes cubes 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine ( ( sake sake ) ) 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chicken chicken stock stock 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese black black vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon finely finely chopped chopped pickled pickled red red chile chile peppers peppers 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili bean bean sauce sauce ( ( ( ( toban toban djan djan ) ) , , such such as as Lee Lee Kum Kum Kee Kee ) ) 3 3 spring spring onions onions , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger , , sliced sliced | | Combine Combine stem stem lettuce lettuce and and pinch pinch of of salt salt in in another another bowl bowl . . Combine Combine water water and and cornstarch cornstarch in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; stir stir into into a a smooth smooth paste paste . . Transfer Transfer half half of of the the cornstarch cornstarch paste paste into into a a larger larger bowl bowl . . Add Add pork pork , , rice rice wine wine , , and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Mix Mix well well and and let let marinate marinate , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk remaining remaining cornstarch cornstarch paste paste , , chicken chicken stock stock , , soy soy sauce sauce , , black black vinegar vinegar , , and and sugar sugar in in another another bowl bowl to to make make sauce sauce . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Add Add pork pork with with marinade marinade ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in pickled pickled chile chile peppers peppers and and chili chili bean bean sauce sauce ; ; cook cook until until oil oil turns turns red red , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add spring spring onions onions , , garlic garlic , , and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in lettuce lettuce ; ; saute saute until until tender tender , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in sauce sauce and and toss toss until until thickened thickened , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . 
Marinade : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 6 6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup bean bean sprouts sprouts 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water Sauce Sauce : : 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons black black bean bean sauce sauce with with garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped garlic garlic 1 1 onion onion , , finely finely sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Mix Mix 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Add Add chicken chicken ; ; toss toss to to combine combine . . Let Let stand stand to to marinate marinate , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Add Add bean bean sprouts sprouts ; ; cook cook just just until until blanched blanched , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds ; ; drain drain . . Combine Combine 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , and and sugar sugar together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Add Add black black bean bean sauce sauce and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add onion onion and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until soft soft , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Add Add marinated marinated chicken chicken ; ; stir-fry stir-fry until until opaque opaque and and cooked cooked through through , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until heated heated through through , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer until until flavors flavors blend blend , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in bell bell pepper pepper ; ; cover cover and and cook cook until until softened softened , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch in in 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water . . Stir Stir in in bean bean sprouts sprouts and and cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes more more . 
1 ( ( 2 2 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cold cold water water 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons peanut peanut oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons finely finely chopped chopped dried dried chile chile peppers peppers 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vinegar vinegar 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice wine wine 20 20 Szechuan Szechuan peppercorns peppercorns , , crushed crushed salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 spring spring onions onions , , chopped chopped , , or or more more to to taste taste 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Place Place chicken chicken in in a a stockpot stockpot with with water water to to cover cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil and and cook cook until until juices juices run run clear clear , , at at least least 20 20 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove chicken chicken ; ; set set aside aside to to cool cool . . Reserve Reserve 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the cooking cooking liquid liquid . . Remove Remove chicken chicken meat meat from from bone bone ; ; cut cut meat meat into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch by by 2-inch 2-inch strips strips . . Mix Mix cornstarch cornstarch and and cold cold water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Toss Toss meat meat in in 1/2 1/2 of of the the cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture . . Heat Heat peanut peanut oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken mixture mixture , , ginger ginger , , and and chiles chiles ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add reserved reserved cooking cooking liquid liquid , , vinegar vinegar , , rice rice wine wine , , peppercorns peppercorns , , and and salt salt . . Return Return to to boil boil ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until mixture mixture is is almost almost dry dry , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in spring spring onions onions , , monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate , , and and remaining remaining cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes more more . . Drizzle Drizzle with with sesame sesame oil oil . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons shrimp shrimp paste paste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fish fish sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons black black soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds pork pork spareribs spareribs , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil ( ( groundnut groundnut oil oil ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Mix Mix shrimp shrimp paste paste , , fish fish sauce sauce , , black black soy soy sauce sauce , , and and sugar sugar together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add spareribs spareribs , , stir stir to to coat coat , , and and marinate marinate for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix cornstarch cornstarch , , peanut peanut oil oil , , and and water water together together in in a a separate separate bowl bowl ; ; stir stir into into spareribs spareribs and and marinate marinate , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove spareribs spareribs from from marinade marinade and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Place Place a a steamer steamer insert insert into into a a saucepan saucepan and and fill fill with with water water to to just just below below the the bottom bottom of of the the steamer steamer . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add spareribs spareribs , , cover cover , , and and steam steam until until cooked cooked through through , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped dried dried shrimp shrimp Marinade Marinade : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch , , or or more more as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 12 12 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon peanut peanut oil oil ( ( groundnut groundnut oil oil ) ) salt salt as as needed needed 2 2 bitter bitter melon melon , , cut cut into into thick thick rings rings and and cores cores removed removed cornstarch cornstarch as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil ( ( groundnut groundnut oil oil ) ) Sauce Sauce : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil ( ( groundnut groundnut oil oil ) ) 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons black black bean-garlic bean-garlic sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped red red pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Place Place shrimp shrimp in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; set set aside aside until until shrimp shrimp are are rehydrated rehydrated , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Mix Mix 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water together together in in a a bowl bowl until until a a smooth smooth paste paste forms forms . . Mix Mix sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt into into cornstarch cornstarch paste paste until until marinade marinade is is well well combined combined . . Stir Stir pork pork into into marinade marinade moving moving the the spoon spoon in in one one direction direction . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat ; ; fry fry shrimp shrimp until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add shrimp shrimp to to pork pork mixture mixture , , stirring stirring in in 1 1 direction direction until until it it reaches reaches a a paste-like paste-like consistency consistency . . Sprinkle Sprinkle salt salt over over bitter bitter melon melon and and let let sit sit for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add bitter bitter melon melon and and cook cook for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain well well . . Stuff Stuff each each bitter bitter melon melon slice slice with with pork pork mixture mixture and and sprinkle sprinkle cornstarch cornstarch evenly evenly over over each each . . Heat Heat peanut peanut oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and fry fry stuffed stuffed bitter bitter melon melon until until brown brown , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer bitter bitter melon melon to to a a serving serving plate plate . . Mix Mix 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar together together in in a a bowl bowl until until oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture is is smooth smooth . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil in in the the same same skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir black black bean-garlic bean-garlic sauce sauce , , red red pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic until until fragrant fragrant , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Add Add oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium ; ; add add stuffed stuffed bitter bitter melons melons and and simmer simmer , , 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl until until a a smooth smooth paste paste forms forms ; ; stir stir into into skillet skillet until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 bone-in bone-in chicken chicken thighs thighs salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped scallions scallions 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and minced minced 6 6 cups cups water water 1 1 cup cup short-grain short-grain brown brown rice rice 2 2 cups cups thinly thinly sliced sliced cabbage cabbage 1 1 cup cup snow snow peas peas 1 1 cup cup bean bean sprouts sprouts 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro leaves leaves | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place chicken chicken in in hot hot oil oil , , season season with with salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper and and cook cook until until well-browned well-browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove chicken chicken and and set set aside aside . . Add Add scallions scallions , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic , , and and jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper to to the the pot pot ; ; cook cook until until soft soft , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour water water and and rice rice into into pot pot ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil , , then then lower lower heat heat to to simmer simmer . . Cover Cover the the pot pot partially partially and and cook cook for for about about 1 1 hour hour , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally to to prevent prevent rice rice from from sticking sticking to to the the bottom bottom . . Stir Stir chicken chicken into into soup soup and and cover cover partially partially . . Continue Continue to to cook cook until until the the soup soup is is creamy creamy with with a a porridge-like porridge-like consistency consistency , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , pull pull meat meat from from bones bones , , and and return return meat meat to to the the pot pot . . Stir Stir in in cabbage cabbage , , snow snow peas peas , , bean bean sprouts sprouts , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and sesame sesame oil oil ; ; cook cook until until vegetables vegetables are are just just tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish jook jook with with cilantro cilantro . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons doubanjiang doubanjiang ( ( soy soy bean bean paste paste ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced shallots shallots 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , pressed pressed 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 6 6 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons tahini tahini ( ( sesame sesame seed seed paste paste ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sake sake 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon miso miso paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon tianmianjiang tianmianjiang ( ( sweet sweet bean bean paste paste ) ) 4 4 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rayu rayu ( ( chile chile oil oil ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh spinach spinach , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 cups cups ramen ramen noodles noodles , , or or to to taste taste 3 3 green green onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 red red Thai Thai chile chile pepper pepper , , sliced sliced | | Heat Heat sesame sesame oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; add add doubanjiang doubanjiang . . Cook Cook and and stir stir shallots shallots , , garlic garlic , , and and ginger ginger until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add ground ground pork pork ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix soy soy sauce sauce , , tahini tahini , , sake sake , , miso miso paste paste , , and and tianmianjiang tianmianjiang into into pork pork mixture mixture until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Add Add chicken chicken stock stock ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Mix Mix rice rice vinegar vinegar and and rayu rayu into into pork pork mixture mixture ; ; add add spinach spinach . . Simmer Simmer soup soup over over low low heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Put Put noodles noodles in in a a bowl bowl of of hot hot water water to to separate separate ; ; drain drain . . Mix Mix noodles noodles into into soup soup and and garnish garnish with with green green onions onions and and Thai Thai chile chile peppers peppers . 
1/4 cup cup dried dried scallops scallops 3 3 dried dried black black mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked short-grain short-grain white white rice rice 1/2 1/2 leftover leftover turkey turkey carcass carcass , , broken broken into into pieces pieces 9 9 cups cups water water Toppings Toppings : : 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup thinly thinly sliced sliced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 cup cup raw raw peanuts peanuts 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried red red onion onion 8 8 dashes dashes sesame sesame oil oil ground ground white white pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Place Place dried dried scallops scallops and and dried dried mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour in in hot hot water water to to cover cover and and let let stand stand to to rehydrate rehydrate , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Rinse Rinse and and drain drain rice rice ; ; set set aside aside . . Separate Separate any any meat meat from from bones bones of of turkey turkey carcass carcass ; ; set set aside aside . . Place Place bones bones and and 9 9 cups cups hot hot water water in in a a large large stockpot stockpot and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Drain Drain mushrooms mushrooms and and scallops scallops ; ; squeeze squeeze out out any any excess excess water water . . Break Break scallops scallops into into smaller smaller pieces pieces ; ; slice slice mushrooms mushrooms thinly thinly . . Stir Stir scallops scallops , , mushrooms mushrooms , , rice rice , , and and turkey turkey meat meat into into the the stockpot stockpot ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to allow allow congee congee to to simmer simmer , , partially partially covered covered , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally for for a a smooth smooth congee congee , , until until rice rice is is tender tender and and congee congee is is thick thick , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . If If you you like like a a thinner thinner congee congee , , stir stir in in hot hot water water a a few few tablespoons tablespoons at at a a time time . . Ladle Ladle congee congee into into individual individual bowls bowls ; ; top top each each bowl bowl with with cilantro cilantro , , green green onions onions , , ginger ginger , , peanuts peanuts , , red red onion onion , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and white white pepper pepper as as desired desired . 
Marinade : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast half half , , thinly thinly sliced sliced Seasonings Seasonings : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup canola canola oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 pound pound chow chow mein mein noodles noodles 1 1 stalk stalk celery celery , , thinly thinly sliced sliced on on the the diagonal diagonal 1 1 carrot carrot , , cut cut into into matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup bean bean sprouts sprouts 1/4 1/4 cup cup thinly thinly sliced sliced onion onion 1 1 green green onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced | | Whisk Whisk water water , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine vinegar vinegar , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce , , cornstarch cornstarch , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl until until marinade marinade is is smooth smooth . . Add Add chicken chicken and and marinate marinate , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir chicken chicken broth broth , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice wine wine vinegar vinegar , , and and sugar sugar together together in in a a bowl bowl until until seasoning seasoning mixture mixture is is well well combined combined . . Heat Heat 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons canola canola oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir noodles noodles until until golden golden brown brown and and crisp crisp , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Transfer Transfer noodles noodles to to a a platter platter . . Pour Pour the the remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon into into skillet skillet with with the the oil oil ; ; cook cook and and stir stir chicken chicken over over high high heat heat until until no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add seasoning seasoning mixture mixture , , celery celery , , carrot carrot , , bean bean sprouts sprouts , , onion onion , , and and green green onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour chicken chicken mixture mixture over over noodles noodles . 
1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 3 3 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | In In a a small small microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl , , combine combine the the soy soy sauce sauce , , oil oil , , honey honey , , ginger ginger root root , , and and garlic garlic . . Heat Heat in in microwave microwave on on medium medium for for 1 1 minute minute , , then then stir stir . . Heat Heat again again for for 30 30 seconds seconds , , watching watching closely closely to to prevent prevent boiling boiling . . Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts in in a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Pour Pour soy soy sauce sauce mixture mixture over over , , and and set set aside aside to to marinate marinate for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat a a grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Drain Drain marinade marinade from from chicken chicken into into a a small small saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and simmer simmer over over medium medium heat heat for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Set Set aside aside for for basting basting . . Lightly Lightly oil oil the the grill grill grate grate . . Cook Cook chicken chicken on on the the prepared prepared grill grill 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes per per side side , , or or until until juices juices run run clear clear . . Baste Baste frequently frequently with with remaining remaining marinade marinade . . Chicken Chicken will will turn turn a a beautiful beautiful golden golden brown brown . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or more more as as needed needed , , divided divided 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ounce ounce fresh fresh ginger ginger , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound pork pork tenderloin tenderloin , , sliced sliced into into thin thin strips strips , , or or to to taste taste 3 3 hot hot long long green green chile chile peppers peppers , , sliced sliced into into thin thin strips strips , , or or more more to to taste taste salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until smoking smoking ; ; saute saute garlic garlic and and ginger ginger until until fragrant fragrant , , 30 30 seconds seconds to to 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add pork pork to to wok wok ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until cooked cooked through through , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer pork pork to to a a plate plate . . Pour Pour remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil into into the the same same wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute chile chile peppers peppers until until well-coated well-coated with with oil oil and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add pork pork to to chile chile peppers peppers and and generously generously season season with with salt salt . . Cook Cook and and stir stir mixture mixture until until peppers peppers are are tender tender , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes more more . . Mix Mix enough enough soy soy sauce sauce into into pork pork mixture mixture to to add add color color and and taste taste for for desired desired saltiness saltiness . 
1/4 cup cup dried dried small small red red beans beans ( ( adzuki adzuki beans beans ) ) water water to to cover cover 1/4 1/4 cup cup barley barley 1/2 1/2 cup cup glutinous glutinous sweet sweet rice rice 1/4 1/4 cup cup dried dried mung mung bean bean 1/4 1/4 cup cup oats oats 1/4 1/4 cup cup millet millet 1/4 1/4 cup cup dried dried small small pearl pearl tapioca tapioca 1/2 1/2 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup raisins raisins | | Place Place red red beans beans into into a a large large container container and and cover cover with with several several inches inches of of cool cool water water ; ; let let stand stand 3 3 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Drain Drain and and rinse rinse . . Combine Combine red red beans beans and and barley barley in in a a pot pot ; ; add add enough enough water water to to fill fill 1/2 1/2 the the pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover pot pot , , and and simmer simmer until until beans beans and and barley barley are are tender tender , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Mix Mix rice rice into into bean-barley bean-barley mixture mixture ; ; add add more more water water if if it it has has all all been been absorbed absorbed . . Cook Cook rice rice mixture mixture for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add mung mung beans beans ; ; cook cook for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix oats oats , , millet millet , , and and tapioca tapioca into into rice rice mixture mixture ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring every every 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until all all the the grains grains are are softened softened , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add more more water water to to reach reach desired desired thickness thickness of of porridge porridge . . Stir Stir brown brown sugar sugar and and raisins raisins into into porridge porridge ; ; cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove pot pot from from heat heat , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally to to prevent prevent sticking sticking . . Serve Serve hot hot or or chilled chilled . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons paprika paprika 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 6 6 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds pork pork ribs ribs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 cups cups water water 3/4 3/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup Chinese Chinese vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce | | Mix Mix paprika paprika , , garlic garlic powder powder , , black black pepper pepper , , and and salt salt in in a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Place Place ribs ribs in in bag bag , , seal seal the the bag bag , , and and shake shake thoroughly thoroughly until until ribs ribs are are completely completely coated coated . . Remove Remove ribs ribs from from bag bag and and discard discard dry dry rub rub . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook ribs ribs in in hot hot oil oil until until browned browned all all over over , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Stir Stir water water , , ketchup ketchup , , brown brown sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , and and Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce together together in in a a pressure pressure cooker cooker . . Add Add browned browned ribs ribs to to pressure pressure cooker cooker . . Lock Lock the the lid lid onto onto the the pressure pressure cooker cooker , , bring bring the the cooker cooker up up to to pressure pressure , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cook Cook ribs ribs over over medium medium heat heat for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and release release pressure pressure according according to to manufacturer manufacturer 's 's directions directions . 
2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt , , divided divided 3/4 3/4 cup cup boiling boiling water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup cold cold water water , , or or as as needed needed vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed , , divided divided 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions ( ( scallions scallions ) ) , , minced minced | | Mix Mix flour flour and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt together together in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; pour pour in in boiling boiling water water and and quickly quickly mix mix together together until until water water is is absorbed absorbed . . Work Work cold cold water water , , about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon at at a a time time , , into into flour flour mixture mixture just just until until dough dough forms forms . . Knead Knead dough dough for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let dough dough rest rest for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn dough dough onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface ; ; divide divide into into 4 4 equal equal pieces pieces . . Roll Roll 1 1 piece piece of of dough dough into into a a large large thin thin round round ; ; brush brush the the top top with with vegetable vegetable oil oil and and sprinkle sprinkle with with about about 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt and and 1/4 1/4 the the green green onions onions . . Pick Pick up up 1 1 end end of of the the round round and and roll roll dough dough around around green green onions onions into into a a long long scroll-shape scroll-shape . . Take Take 1 1 scroll scroll end end and and roll roll dough dough into into a a disk disk . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dough dough , , letting letting each each disk disk rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Place Place 1 1 disk disk on on a a floured floured surface surface and and roll roll into into a a 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick round round ; ; cook cook in in the the hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining disks disks . 
2 pork pork tenderloins tenderloins 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/3 1/3 cup cup honey honey 1/3 1/3 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/3 1/3 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup Chinese Chinese rice rice wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red food food coloring coloring 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Cut Cut pork pork with with the the grain grain into into strips strips 1 1 1/2- 1/2- to to 2-inches 2-inches long long ; ; put put into into a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Stir Stir soy soy sauce sauce , , honey honey , , ketchup ketchup , , brown brown sugar sugar , , rice rice wine wine , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , red red food food coloring coloring , , and and Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder together together in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until just just combined combined and and slightly slightly warm warm , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the marinade marinade into into the the bag bag with with the the pork pork , , squeeze squeeze air air from from the the bag bag , , and and seal seal . . Turn Turn bag bag a a few few times times to to coat coat all all pork pork pieces pieces in in marinade marinade . . Marinate Marinate pork pork in in refrigerator refrigerator , , 2 2 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Remove Remove pork pork from from marinade marinade and and shake shake to to remove remove excess excess liquid liquid . . Discard Discard remaining remaining marinade marinade . . Cook Cook pork pork on on preheated preheated grill grill for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Put Put a a small small container container of of water water onto onto the the grill grill and and continue continue cooking cooking , , turning turning the the pork pork regularly regularly , , until until cooked cooked through through , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1/2 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes | | Mix Mix brown brown sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and crushed crushed red red pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl . 
4 quarts quarts water water 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken 2 2 3/4 3/4 inch inch piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger , , divided divided 1 1 green green onion onion , , white white part part only only , , crushed crushed 2 2 fresh fresh red red chile chile peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and thinly thinly sliced sliced into into 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slivers slivers 6 6 dried dried red red chile chile peppers peppers ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 cup cup lard lard 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons Shaoxing Shaoxing cooking cooking wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup rice rice vinegar vinegar salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold water water 5 5 green green onions onions , , green green parts parts cut cut into into even even slivers slivers 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Bring Bring 4 4 quarts quarts water water to to a a boil boil in in a a large large pot pot ; ; add add whole whole chicken chicken to to the the boiling boiling water water . . Crush Crush half half the the ginger ginger and and add add to to the the boiling boiling water water . . Add Add crushed crushed green green onion onion white white . . Boil Boil chicken chicken until until 3/4 3/4 cooked cooked , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from pot pot and and cool cool ; ; reserve reserve chicken chicken broth broth . . Remove Remove skin skin from from cooled cooled chicken chicken and and cut cut meat meat from from the the bones bones . . Cut Cut meat meat into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces and and set set aside aside . . Discard Discard skin skin and and bones bones . . Peel Peel the the remaining remaining half half ginger ginger piece piece and and slice slice into into 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slivers slivers . . Combine Combine ginger ginger slivers slivers , , fresh fresh red red chile chile pepper pepper slivers slivers , , dried dried red red chile chile peppers peppers , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes in in a a bowl bowl . . Heat Heat a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat ; ; add add lard lard and and swirl swirl around around until until melted melted . . Cook Cook and and stir stir ginger-chile ginger-chile pepper pepper mixture mixture in in the the hot hot lard lard , , continuously continuously moving moving wok wok , , until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add chicken chicken meat meat ; ; splash splash cooking cooking wine wine around around the the edges edges of of the the chicken chicken . . Pour Pour in in vinegar vinegar and and season season with with salt salt . . Pour Pour about about 1 1 cup cup ( ( or or more more as as needed needed ) ) leftover leftover chicken chicken broth broth into into the the chicken chicken mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and liquid liquid is is mostly mostly evaporated evaporated , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk cornstarch cornstarch and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Stir Stir cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture into into chicken chicken mixture mixture ; ; stir stir to to coat coat chicken chicken . . Add Add 5 5 green green onions onions and and stir stir to to combine combine . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in sesame sesame oil oil . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 pound pound tiger tiger shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups sliced sliced king king mushrooms mushrooms 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon oyster oyster sauce sauce , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh Chinese Chinese wheat wheat noodles noodles 2 2 cups cups bean bean sprouts sprouts | | Heat Heat sesame sesame oil oil and and olive olive oil oil in in a a large large wok wok or or frying frying pan pan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir shrimp shrimp and and onion onion in in the the hot hot oil oil until until coated coated . . Mix Mix mushrooms mushrooms , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic into into shrimp shrimp mixture mixture , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Add Add ginger ginger and and stir stir . . Pour Pour water water and and oyster oyster sauce sauce into into shrimp shrimp mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer until until shrimp shrimp are are bright bright pink pink on on the the outside outside and and the the meat meat is is no no longer longer transparent transparent in in the the center center , , 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir well well . . Mix Mix noodles noodles and and bean bean sprouts sprouts into into shrimp shrimp mixture mixture ; ; toss toss to to combine combine . . Cook Cook until until noodles noodles are are heated heated through through , , 2 2 minutes minutes . . Toss Toss again again . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice wine wine 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 3/4 3/4 pound pound ground ground pork pork 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion ( ( white white and and light light green green parts parts ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar salt salt to to taste taste 25 25 wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 3 3 heads heads bok bok choy choy , , sliced sliced 10 10 sugar sugar snap snap peas peas , , sliced sliced 1 1 carrot carrot , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion ( ( white white and and light light green green parts parts ) ) 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion ( ( white white and and light light green green parts parts ) ) | | Whisk Whisk rice rice wine wine and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in large large bowl bowl . . Add Add ground ground pork pork , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons green green onion onion , , soy soy sauce sauce , , ginger ginger , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and sugar sugar ; ; stir stir until until well well combined combined and and paste-like paste-like , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 1 1 hour hour . . Place Place about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon pork pork mixture mixture in in the the middle middle of of a a wonton wonton wrapper wrapper . . Brush Brush edges edges with with beaten beaten egg egg and and pinch pinch edges edges to to seal seal , , creating creating a a small small pouch pouch . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining wonton wonton wrappers wrappers and and pork pork mixture mixture . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until ready ready to to use use . . Place Place a a steamer steamer insert insert into into a a saucepan saucepan and and fill fill with with water water to to just just below below the the bottom bottom of of the the steamer steamer . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add bok bok choy choy , , snap snap peas peas , , carrot carrot , , and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons green green onion onion , , cover cover , , and and steam steam until until tender tender , , 2 2 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove and and distribute distribute evenly evenly among among 4 4 soup soup bowls bowls . . Place Place wontons wontons in in steamer steamer basket basket and and steam steam until until pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove and and place place in in soup soup bowls bowls alongside alongside vegetables vegetables . . Heat Heat chicken chicken broth broth and and water water in in a a saucepan saucepan until until hot hot , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour hot hot broth broth mixture mixture evenly evenly into into soup soup bowls bowls atop atop vegetables vegetables and and wontons wontons . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion evenly evenly over over each each bowl bowl . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 whole whole star star anise anise pod pod , , crushed crushed 1 1 pinch pinch Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon aji aji mirin mirin ( ( sweet sweet rice rice cooking cooking wine wine ) ) , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork loin loin roast roast | | Combine Combine honey honey , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , star star anise anise , , five-spice five-spice powder powder , , and and aji aji mirin mirin in in a a glass glass measuring measuring cup cup . . Set Set microwave microwave oven oven for for 60 60 percent percent power power and and heat heat in in microwave microwave oven oven for for 22 22 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir mixture mixture and and pour pour into into a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Add Add pork pork loin loin to to the the bag bag , , knead knead to to coat coat meat meat with with marinade marinade , , and and refrigerate refrigerate at at least least 4 4 hours hours or or up up to to two two days days . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium medium heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Remove Remove pork pork roast roast from from bag bag and and wrap wrap meat meat tightly tightly in in aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Discard Discard used used marinade marinade . . Cook Cook on on the the preheated preheated grill grill until until an an instant-read instant-read meat meat thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the roast roast reads reads 155 155 degrees degrees F F ( ( 70 70 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 50 50 minutes minutes . . Let Let meat meat stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
1 pound pound beef beef top top sirloin sirloin steak steak 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 red red onion onion , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch squares squares 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch squares squares 2 2 tomatoes tomatoes , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Slice Slice the the steak steak into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick slices slices across across the the grain grain . . Whisk Whisk together together soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , cornstarch cornstarch , , and and ginger ginger in in a a bowl bowl until until the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved and and the the mixture mixture is is smooth smooth . . Place Place the the steak steak slices slices into into the the marinade marinade , , and and stir stir until until well-coated well-coated . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and place place 1/3 1/3 of of the the steak steak strips strips into into the the hot hot oil oil . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the beef beef is is well-browned well-browned , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes , , and and remove remove the the beef beef from from the the wok wok to to a a bowl bowl . . Repeat Repeat twice twice more more , , with with the the remaining remaining beef beef , , and and set set the the cooked cooked beef beef aside aside . . Return Return all all the the cooked cooked beef beef to to the the hot hot wok wok , , and and stir stir in in the the onion onion . . Toss Toss the the beef beef and and onion onion together together until until the the onion onion begins begins to to soften soften , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then stir stir in in the the green green pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the mixture mixture until until the the pepper pepper has has turned turned bright bright green green and and started started to to become become tender tender , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then add add the the tomatoes tomatoes , , stir stir everything everything together together , , and and serve serve . 
2 1 1 1/2-inch-thick 1/2-inch-thick New New York York strip strip steaks steaks , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried minced minced onion onion 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 cups cups white white rice rice 4 4 cups cups water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup canned canned sliced sliced bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup canned canned sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 cup cup broccoli broccoli florets florets 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar snap snap peas peas ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1/2 1/2 ( ( 10 10 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) bottle bottle oyster oyster sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion | | Place Place steak steak in in a a bowl bowl ; ; top top with with minced minced onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce . . Stir Stir to to coat coat . . Bring Bring rice rice and and 4 4 cups cups water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender , , and and the the liquid liquid has has been been absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , mushrooms mushrooms , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup green green onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce in in the the hot hot oil oil until until green green bell bell pepper pepper is is slightly slightly tender tender , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add steak steak , , broccoli broccoli , , and and sugar sugar snap snap peas peas ; ; cook cook until until beef beef is is browned browned and and no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk cornstarch cornstarch and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water together together in in a a bowl bowl until until cornstarch cornstarch is is dissolved dissolved . . Heat Heat oyster oyster sauce sauce in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; slowly slowly stir stir in in cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture into into steak steak mixture mixture ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup green green onions onions . . Cook Cook steak steak mixture mixture until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 7 7 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve over over rice rice . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 small small head head cabbage cabbage , , shredded shredded 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into strips strips 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | Heat Heat a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and add add oil oil . . Saute Saute garlic garlic for for about about 5 5 seconds seconds , , then then add add ground ground beef beef . . Stir-fry Stir-fry until until beef beef is is evenly evenly brown brown . . Stir Stir in in cabbage cabbage and and pepper pepper , , and and cook cook until until vegetables vegetables are are tender tender , , and and beef beef is is fully fully cooked cooked . . Stir Stir in in soy soy sauce sauce . . Mix Mix together together cornstarch cornstarch and and water water , , and and stir stir in in . . Season Season with with pepper pepper . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring , , until until sauce sauce has has thickened thickened . 
1 cup cup water water 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup walnuts walnuts 4 4 egg egg whites whites 2/3 2/3 cup cup mochiko mochiko ( ( glutinous glutinous rice rice flour flour ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1 1 pound pound large large shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon canned canned sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | Stir Stir together together the the water water and and sugar sugar in in a a small small saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and add add the the walnuts walnuts . . Boil Boil for for 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then drain drain and and place place walnuts walnuts on on a a cookie cookie sheet sheet to to dry dry . . Whip Whip egg egg whites whites in in a a medium medium bowl bowl until until foamy foamy . . Stir Stir in in the the mochiko mochiko until until it it has has a a pasty pasty consistency consistency . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a heavy heavy deep deep skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Dip Dip shrimp shrimp into into the the mochiko mochiko batter batter , , and and then then fry fry in in the the hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . In In a a medium medium serving serving bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the mayonnaise mayonnaise , , honey honey and and sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk . . Add Add shrimp shrimp and and toss toss to to coat coat with with the the sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the candied candied walnuts walnuts on on top top and and serve serve . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons peanut peanut butter butter 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons brown brown sugar sugar 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon hot hot chile chile paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 16 16 ( ( 3.5 3.5 inch inch square square ) ) wonton wonton wrappers wrappers , , shredded shredded 4 4 cups cups romaine romaine lettuce lettuce - - torn torn , , washed washed and and dried dried 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded carrots carrots 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | To To prepare prepare the the dressing dressing , , whisk whisk together together the the hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , peanut peanut butter butter , , brown brown sugar sugar , , chili chili paste paste , , ginger ginger , , vinegar vinegar , , and and sesame sesame oil oil . . Grill Grill or or broil broil the the chicken chicken breasts breasts until until cooked cooked , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Cool Cool and and slice slice . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a large large shallow shallow pan pan with with nonstick nonstick vegetable vegetable spray spray ; ; arrange arrange shredded shredded wontons wontons in in a a single single layer layer and and bake bake until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the chicken chicken , , wontons wontons , , lettuce lettuce , , carrots carrots , , green green onions onions and and cilantro cilantro . . Toss Toss with with dressing dressing and and serve serve . 
1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped and and divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 head head napa napa cabbage cabbage , , cored cored and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 cups cups low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Mix Mix the the ground ground pork pork , , egg egg , , cornstarch cornstarch , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of sesame sesame oil oil , , ginger ginger , , monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate , , salt salt , , and and half half of of the the chopped chopped green green onions onions together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Use Use your your hands hands to to mix mix until until the the ingredients ingredients are are evenly evenly distributed distributed . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . When When the the oil oil is is hot hot , , fry fry the the napa napa cabbage cabbage , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until cabbage cabbage begins begins to to wilt wilt , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the chicken chicken broth broth , , water water , , and and soy soy sauce sauce . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then lower lower the the heat heat to to medium medium . . Use Use a a spoon spoon to to form form the the meat meat mixture mixture into into 1 1 inch inch balls balls . . Drop Drop them them into into the the boiling boiling soup soup . . When When the the last last ball ball has has been been added added , , cover cover with with a a lid lid and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust salt salt before before serving serving . . Garnish Garnish with with remaining remaining green green onions onions and and a a drizzle drizzle of of sesame sesame oil oil . 
1 pound pound flank flank steak steak , , cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 3 3 large large green green onions onions , , sliced sliced diagonally diagonally into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/2 1/2 cup cup hoisin hoisin sauce sauce | | Place Place flank flank steak steak and and cornstarch cornstarch into into a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Shake Shake the the bag bag to to evenly evenly coat coat the the flank flank steak steak with with the the cornstarch cornstarch . . Allow Allow to to steak steak rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir steak steak until until evenly evenly browned browned , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Place Place onion onion , , garlic garlic , , flank flank steak steak , , green green onions onions , , soy soy sauce sauce , , water water , , brown brown sugar sugar , , ginger ginger , , and and hoisin hoisin sauce sauce in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Cook Cook on on Low Low setting setting for for about about 4 4 hours hours . 
12 ounces ounces boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cut cut into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 large large onion onion , , cut cut into into rings rings 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 medium medium head head bok bok choy choy , , chopped chopped 1 1 small small head head broccoli broccoli , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch , , mixed mixed with with equal equal parts parts water water | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine chicken chicken , , oyster oyster sauce sauce and and soy soy sauce sauce . . Set Set aside aside for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute garlic garlic and and onion onion until until soft soft and and translucent translucent . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high . . Add Add chicken chicken and and marinade marinade , , then then stir-fry stir-fry until until light light golden golden brown brown , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in water water , , pepper pepper and and sugar sugar . . Add Add bok bok choy choy and and broccoli broccoli , , and and cook cook stirring stirring until until soft soft , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture , , and and cook cook until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup oyster oyster sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup | | Coat Coat the the chicken chicken pieces pieces with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of cornstarch cornstarch ; ; set set aside aside . . Beat Beat the the eggs eggs , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour and and baking baking powder powder until until no no large large lumps lumps remain remain . . Mix Mix in in the the chicken chicken until until evenly evenly coated coated . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Drop Drop in in the the chicken chicken pieces pieces ; ; cook cook until until golden golden brown brown and and no no longer longer pink pink on on the the inside inside , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . . Set Set the the chicken chicken aside aside ; ; keep keep warm warm . . Reduce Reduce the the heat heat to to medium-high medium-high and and stir stir in in the the sesame sesame oil oil , , ginger ginger , , and and green green onion onion . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion is is limp limp and and the the ginger ginger begins begins to to brown brown , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in the the water water , , vinegar vinegar , , and and sugar sugar ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in the the soy soy sauce sauce and and add add to to the the simmering simmering vinegar vinegar along along with with the the oyster oyster sauce sauce and and ketchup ketchup . . Stir Stir until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened and and is is no no longer longer cloudy cloudy . . Stir Stir in in the the chicken chicken and and simmer simmer until until hot hot . 
1/2 pound pound boneless boneless pork pork loin loin , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2 2 ounces ounces peeled peeled shrimp shrimp , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Chinese Chinese rice rice wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 24 24 ( ( 3.5 3.5 inch inch square square ) ) wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 3 3 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1/8 1/8 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped green green onion onion | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine pork pork , , shrimp shrimp , , sugar sugar , , wine wine , , soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped green green onion onion and and ginger ginger . . Blend Blend well well , , and and let let stand stand for for 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Place Place about about one one teaspoon teaspoon of of the the filling filling at at the the center center of of each each wonton wonton skin skin . . Moisten Moisten all all 4 4 edges edges of of wonton wonton wrapper wrapper with with water water , , then then pull pull the the top top corner corner down down to to the the bottom bottom , , folding folding the the wrapper wrapper over over the the filling filling to to make make a a triangle triangle . . Press Press edges edges firmly firmly to to make make a a seal seal . . Bring Bring left left and and right right corners corners together together above above the the filling filling . . Overlap Overlap the the tips tips of of these these corners corners , , moisten moisten with with water water and and press press together together . . Continue Continue until until all all wrappers wrappers are are used used . . FOR FOR SOUP SOUP : : Bring Bring the the chicken chicken stock stock to to a a rolling rolling boil boil . . Drop Drop wontons wontons in in , , and and cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish with with chopped chopped green green onion onion , , and and serve serve . 
1/2 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 onion onion 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds cooked cooked , , cubed cubed chicken chicken meat meat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 large large carrots carrots , , diced diced 2 2 stalks stalks celery celery , , chopped chopped 1 1 large large red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 3/4 3/4 cup cup fresh fresh pea pea pods pods , , halved halved 1/2 1/2 large large green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 6 6 cups cups cooked cooked white white rice rice 2 2 eggs eggs 1/3 1/3 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and saute saute until until soft soft , , then then add add chicken chicken and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce and and stir-fry stir-fry for for 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in carrots carrots , , celery celery , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , pea pea pods pods and and green green bell bell pepper pepper and and stir-fry stir-fry another another 5 5 minutes minutes . . Then Then add add rice rice and and stir stir thoroughly thoroughly . . Finally Finally , , stir stir in in scrambled scrambled eggs eggs and and 1/3 1/3 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce , , heat heat through through and and serve serve hot hot . 
6 thick thick cut cut pork pork chops chops ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Trim Trim excess excess fat fat from from pork pork chops chops and and place place in in slow slow cooker cooker . . Mix Mix brown brown sugar sugar , , ginger ginger , , soy soy sauce sauce , , ketchup ketchup , , garlic garlic , , salt salt and and pepper pepper in in small small bowl bowl and and pour pour over over meat meat . . Cover Cover , , turn turn to to low low and and cook cook 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours , , or or until until tender tender . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , if if needed needed . 
2 long long Chinese Chinese eggplants eggplants , , cubed cubed 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 green green chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili oil oil , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Place Place the the eggplant eggplant cubes cubes into into a a large large bowl bowl , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with salt salt . . Fill Fill with with enough enough water water to to cover cover , , and and let let stand stand for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Rinse Rinse well well , , and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the soy soy sauce sauce , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , sugar sugar , , chile chile pepper pepper , , cornstarch cornstarch and and chili chili oil oil . . Set Set the the sauce sauce aside aside . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Fry Fry the the eggplant eggplant until until it it is is tender tender and and begins begins to to brown brown , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the sauce sauce , , and and cook cook and and stir stir until until the the sauce sauce is is thick thick and and the the eggplant eggplant is is evenly evenly coated coated . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame seeds seeds 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound beef beef round round steak steak , , cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 carrots carrots , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , cut cut into into 2 2 inch inch pieces pieces | | In In a a dry dry skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , toast toast sesame sesame seeds seeds for for 1 1 to2 to2 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the seeds seeds begin begin to to turn turn golden golden brown brown ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch , , and and minced minced garlic garlic . . Stir Stir in in beef beef strips strips . . Let Let stand stand for for at at least least 10 10 minutes minutes . . In In a a separate separate small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together water water , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce , , 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch , , sugar sugar , , sesame sesame seeds seeds , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil in in a a wok wok or or skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir beef beef in in hot hot oil oil for for 1 1 minute minute ; ; remove remove , , and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat remaining remaining tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil in in the the same same pan pan . . Saute Saute carrots carrots and and white white part part of of green green onions onions for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in green green parts parts of of the the green green onion onion , , and and saute saute for for 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in sesame sesame seed seed mixture mixture and and beef beef . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce boils boils and and thickens thickens . 
1/2 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1/2 1/2 medium medium head head cabbage cabbage , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 green green onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained and and finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice vinegar vinegar | | Crumble Crumble pork pork into into a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet . . Cook Cook over over medium medium high high heat heat until until evenly evenly brown brown . . Drain Drain and and set set aside aside . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the pork pork , , cabbage cabbage , , green green onion onion , , ginger ginger , , water water chestnuts chestnuts , , salt salt , , sugar sugar and and sesame sesame oil oil . . Chill Chill in in the the refrigerator refrigerator 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight . . Place Place a a tablespoon tablespoon of of the the pork pork mixture mixture into into each each of of the the wonton wonton wrappers wrappers . . Fold Fold the the wrappers wrappers , , and and seal seal the the edges edges with with a a moistened moistened fork fork . . In In a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet , , heat heat 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Place Place the the pot pot stickers stickers into into the the oil oil seam seam sides sides up up . . Heat Heat 30 30 seconds seconds to to a a minute minute . . Pour Pour water water into into the the skillet skillet . . Gently Gently boil boil 7 7 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , until until oil oil and and water water begins begins to to sizzle sizzle , , then then add add remaining remaining oil oil . . When When the the bottoms bottoms begin begin to to brown brown , , remove remove pot pot stickers stickers from from heat heat . . In In a a small small serving serving bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the chili chili oil oil , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and vinegar vinegar , , adjusting adjusting proportions proportions to to taste taste . 
1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 large large red red onion onion , , chopped chopped ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame seeds seeds 2 2 leeks leeks , , chopped chopped 1 1 small small carrot carrot , , chopped chopped 1 1 pound pound beef beef round round steak steak , , sliced sliced paper paper thin thin | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , brown brown sugar sugar , , garlic garlic , , and and red red onion onion . . Stir Stir in in the the black black pepper pepper , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , sesame sesame seeds seeds , , leeks leeks and and carrot carrot . . Mix Mix in in the the meat meat by by hand hand to to ensure ensure even even coating coating . . Cover Cover and and let let marinate marinate for for at at least least 2 2 hours hours or or overnight overnight . . Brush Brush the the bottom bottom half half of of a a wok wok with with cooking cooking oil oil , , and and heat heat over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Put Put in in all all of of the the meat meat and and marinade marinade at at once once , , and and cook cook stirring stirring constantly constantly . . The The meat meat will will be be cooked cooked after after just just a a few few minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and serve serve with with rice rice or or noodles noodles . . For For Korean Korean style style fire fire meat meat , , roll roll the the meat meat mixture mixture up up in in a a leaf leaf of of red red lettuce lettuce . 
1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch , , dissolved dissolved in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 ounce ounce hot hot chile chile paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons brown brown sugar sugar 4 4 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can water water chestnuts chestnuts 4 4 ounces ounces chopped chopped peanuts peanuts | | To To Make Make Marinade Marinade : : Combine Combine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon wine wine , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch/water cornstarch/water mixture mixture and and mix mix together together . . Place Place chicken chicken pieces pieces in in a a glass glass dish dish or or bowl bowl and and add add marinade marinade . . Toss Toss to to coat coat . . Cover Cover dish dish and and place place in in refrigerator refrigerator for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . To To Make Make Sauce Sauce : : In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon wine wine , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch/water cornstarch/water mixture mixture , , chili chili paste paste , , vinegar vinegar and and sugar sugar . . Mix Mix together together and and add add green green onion onion , , garlic garlic , , water water chestnuts chestnuts and and peanuts peanuts . . In In a a medium medium skillet skillet , , heat heat sauce sauce slowly slowly until until aromatic aromatic . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , remove remove chicken chicken from from marinade marinade and and saute saute in in a a large large skillet skillet until until meat meat is is white white and and juices juices run run clear clear . . When When sauce sauce is is aromatic aromatic , , add add sauteed sauteed chicken chicken to to it it and and let let simmer simmer together together until until sauce sauce thickens thickens . 
2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 egg egg , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped green green onion onion | | In In a a medium medium stock stock pot pot , , mix mix cold cold chicken chicken broth broth with with cornstarch cornstarch . . Slowly Slowly heat heat over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring frequently frequently . . Pour Pour beaten beaten egg egg into into soup soup , , and and stir stir once once around around stock stock pot pot very very gently gently , , in in order order to to break break up up egg egg . . Remove Remove soup soup from from heat heat immediately immediately , , divide divide into into four four portions portions and and garnish garnish with with green green onions onions . 
1 egg egg white white 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup unbleached unbleached all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F . . Butter Butter a a cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Write Write fortunes fortunes on on strips strips of of paper paper about about 4 4 inches inches long long and and 1/2 1/2 inch inch wide wide . . Generously Generously grease grease 2 2 cookie cookie sheets sheets . . Mix Mix the the egg egg white white and and vanilla vanilla until until foamy foamy but but not not stiff stiff . . Sift Sift the the flour flour , , salt salt , , and and sugar sugar and and blend blend into into the the egg egg white white mixture mixture . . Place Place teaspoonfuls teaspoonfuls of of the the batter batter at at least least 4 4 inches inches apart apart on on one one of of the the prepared prepared cookie cookie sheets sheets . . Tilt Tilt the the sheet sheet to to move move the the batter batter into into round round shapes shapes about about 3 3 inches inches in in diameter diameter . . Be Be careful careful to to make make batter batter as as round round and and even even as as possible possible . . Do Do not not make make too too many many , , because because the the cookie cookie have have to to be be really really hot hot to to form form them them and and once once they they cool cool it it is is too too late late . . Start Start with with 2 2 or or 3 3 to to a a sheet sheet and and see see how how many many you you can can do do . . Bake Bake for for 5 5 minutes minutes or or until until cookie cookie has has turned turned a a golden golden color color 1/2 1/2 inch inch wide wide around around the the outer outer edge edge of of the the circle circle . . The The center center will will remain remain pale pale . . While While one one sheet sheet is is baking baking , , prepare prepare the the other other . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and quickly quickly move move cookie cookie with with a a wide wide spatula spatula and and place place upside upside down down on on a a wooden wooden board board . . Quickly Quickly place place the the fortune fortune on on the the cookie cookie , , close close to to the the middle middle and and fold fold the the cookie cookie in in half half . . Place Place the the folded folded edge edge across across the the rim rim of of a a measuring measuring cup cup and and pull pull the the pointed pointed edges edges down down , , one one on on the the inside inside of of the the cup cup and and one one on on the the outside outside . . Place Place folded folded cookies cookies into into the the cups cups of of a a muffin muffin tin tin or or egg egg carton carton to to hold hold their their shape shape until until firm firm . 
8 ounces ounces uncooked uncooked spaghetti spaghetti 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded carrots carrots 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced red red bell bell peppers peppers 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh bean bean sprouts sprouts 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1/4 1/4 cup cup hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large wok wok or or saute saute pan pan . . Stir Stir fry fry mushrooms mushrooms , , carrots carrots , , peppers peppers , , onion onion and and garlic garlic until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in bean bean sprouts sprouts and and green green onions onions ; ; cook cook one one minute minute . . Mix Mix cornstarch cornstarch and and chicken chicken broth broth in in a a small small bowl bowl and and add add to to stir stir fry fry . . Stir Stir in in hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , honey honey , , soy soy sauce sauce , , ginger ginger , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper and and curry curry powder powder . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until thickened thickened and and bubbly bubbly . . Add Add cooked cooked spaghetti spaghetti , , and and toss toss . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
4 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 medium medium head head cabbage cabbage , , finely finely shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 carrot carrot , , julienned julienned 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can shredded shredded bamboo bamboo shoots shoots 1 1 cup cup dried dried , , shredded shredded wood wood ear ear mushroom mushroom , , rehydrated rehydrated 1 1 pound pound Chinese Chinese barbequed barbequed or or roasted roasted pork pork , , cut cut into into matchsticks matchsticks 2 2 green green onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package egg egg roll roll wrappers wrappers 1 1 egg egg white white , , beaten beaten 4 4 cups cups oil oil for for frying frying , , or or as as needed needed | | Heat Heat 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Pour Pour in in beaten beaten eggs eggs and and cook cook , , without without stirring stirring , , until until firmed firmed . . Flip Flip the the eggs eggs over over and and cook cook for for an an additional additional 20 20 seconds seconds to to firm firm the the other other side side . . Set Set egg egg pancake pancake aside aside to to cool cool , , then then slice slice into into thin thin strips strips . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in cabbage cabbage and and carrot carrot ; ; cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes to to wilt wilt . . Add Add bamboo bamboo , , mushroom mushroom , , pork pork , , green green onions onions , , soy soy sauce sauce , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and MSG MSG ; ; continue continue cooking cooking until until the the vegetables vegetables soften soften , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in sliced sliced egg egg , , then then spread spread mixture mixture out out onto onto a a pan pan , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until cold cold , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . To To assemble assemble the the egg egg rolls rolls , , place place a a wrapper wrapper onto onto your your work work surface surface with with one one corner corner pointing pointing towards towards you you . . Place Place about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of cooled cooled filling filling in in a a heap heap onto onto the the bottom bottom third third of of the the wrapper wrapper . . Brush Brush a a little little beaten beaten egg egg white white onto onto the the top top two two edges edges of of the the wrapper wrapper , , then then fold fold the the bottom bottom corner corner over over the the filling filling and and roll roll firmly firmly to to the the halfway halfway point point . . Fold Fold the the left left and and right right sides sides snugly snugly over over the the egg egg roll roll , , then then continue continue rolling rolling until until the the top top corners corners seal seal the the egg egg roll roll with with the the egg egg white white . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining egg egg roll roll wrappers wrappers , , covering covering finished finished egg egg rolls rolls with with plastic plastic wrap wrap to to keep keep from from drying drying out out . . Heat Heat about about 6-inches 6-inches of of oil oil in in a a wok wok or or deep-fryer deep-fryer to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry egg egg rolls rolls 3 3 or or 4 4 at at a a time time until until golden golden brown brown , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons canola canola oil oil 4 4 Chinese Chinese eggplants eggplants , , halved halved lengthwise lengthwise and and cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch half half moons moons 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce | | Heat Heat the the canola canola oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the eggplant eggplant until until soft soft , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the water water , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and garlic garlic powder powder . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer until until all all the the water water is is absorbed absorbed . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , mix mix sugar sugar , , cornstarch cornstarch , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and oyster oyster sauce sauce in in a a bowl bowl until until sugar sugar and and cornstarch cornstarch have have dissolved dissolved . . Stir Stir sauce sauce into into the the eggplant eggplant , , making making sure sure to to evenly evenly coat coat the the eggplant eggplant . . Cook Cook until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened . 
5 dried dried wood wood ear ear mushrooms mushrooms 4 4 dried dried shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms 8 8 dried dried tiger tiger lily lily buds buds 4 4 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1/3 1/3 cup cup diced diced bamboo bamboo shoots shoots 1/3 1/3 cup cup lean lean ground ground pork pork 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1/2 1/2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package firm firm tofu tofu , , cubed cubed 1 1 egg egg , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons thinly thinly sliced sliced green green onion onion | | Soak Soak the the dried dried mushrooms mushrooms and and tiger tiger lily lily buds buds in in warm warm water water for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . After After trimming trimming off off any any tough tough stems stems , , slice slice the the mushrooms mushrooms . . With With the the fingers fingers , , shred shred the the tiger tiger lily lily stems stems . . Place Place the the mushrooms mushrooms , , tiger tiger lily lily buds buds , , stock stock , , bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , and and shredded shredded pork pork into into a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , white white pepper pepper , , and and vinegar vinegar . . Combine Combine cornstarch cornstarch with with 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water . . Add Add a a little little of of the the hot hot soup soup to to the the cornstarch cornstarch , , and and then then return return all all to to the the pan pan . . Heat Heat to to boiling boiling , , stirring stirring . . Add Add the the bean bean curd curd , , and and cook cook 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Just Just before before serving serving , , turn turn off off the the heat heat . . Stir Stir the the egg egg in in gradually gradually . . Mix Mix in in sesame sesame oil oil . . Sprinkle Sprinkle each each serving serving with with scallions scallions . 
1 ( ( 1 1 1/2 1/2 pound pound ) ) eggplant eggplant 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons water water 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 large large green green onions onions , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 pound pound fresh fresh shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled , , deveined deveined , , and and diced diced 1/3 1/3 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 4 4 cups cups hot hot cooked cooked rice rice | | Remove Remove the the eggplant eggplant stem stem and and cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine the the soy soy sauce sauce , , chicken chicken stock stock , , chili chili sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , ground ground black black pepper pepper and and oyster oyster sauce sauce . . Stir Stir together together well well and and set set aside aside . . In In a a separate separate small small bowl bowl , , combine combine the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water , , and and set set aside aside . . Coat Coat a a large large , , deep deep pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray over over high high heat heat and and allow allow a a few few minutes minutes for for it it to to get get very very hot hot . . Saute Saute the the garlic garlic , , half half of of the the green green onions onions , , ginger ginger and and dried dried shrimp shrimp , , if if using using ( ( see see Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until they they begin begin to to brown brown . . Stir Stir in in the the ground ground beef beef or or pork pork and and cook cook for for 3 3 more more minutes minutes , , again again stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until browned browned . . Pour Pour the the eggplant eggplant into into the the pan pan and and stir stir all all together together . . Pour Pour the the reserved reserved soy soy sauce sauce mixture mixture over over all all , , cover cover the the pan pan , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium low low and and let let simmer simmer for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . If If you you 're 're using using fresh fresh shrimp shrimp , , add add it it during during the the last last few few minutes minutes of of cooking cooking . . Stir Stir in in the the reserved reserved cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture and and let let heat heat until until thickened thickened . . Finally Finally , , stir stir in in the the rest rest of of the the green green onions onions and and the the sesame sesame oil oil . . Serve Serve over over hot hot rice rice . 
1 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 3 3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup butter butter 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 dash dash vanilla vanilla extract extract 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 9 9 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 dash dash vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 cup cup evaporated evaporated milk milk | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and flour flour . . Mix Mix in in butter butter with with a a fork fork until until it it is is in in small small crumbs crumbs . . Stir Stir in in the the egg egg and and vanilla vanilla until until the the mixture mixture forms forms a a dough dough . . The The texture texture should should be be slightly slightly moist moist . . Add Add more more butter butter if if it it is is too too dry dry , , or or more more flour flour , , if if the the dough dough seems seems greasy greasy . . Shape Shape dough dough into into 1 1 1/2 1/2 inch inch balls balls , , and and press press the the balls balls into into tart tart molds molds so so that that it it covers covers the the bottom bottom , , and and goes goes up up higher higher than than the the sides sides . . Use Use 2 2 fingers fingers to to shape shape the the edge edge into into an an A A shape shape . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine the the white white sugar sugar and and water water in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook until until the the sugar sugar is is dissolved dissolved , , remove remove from from heat heat and and cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . Strain Strain the the eggs eggs through through a a sieve sieve , , and and whisk whisk into into the the sugar sugar mixture mixture . . Stir Stir in in the the evaporated evaporated milk milk and and vanilla vanilla . . Strain Strain the the filling filling through through a a sieve sieve , , and and fill fill the the tart tart shells shells . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until golden golden brown brown , , and and the the filling filling is is puffed puffed up up a a little little bit bit . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder | | Mix Mix together together yeast yeast , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup flour flour , , and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup warm warm water water . . Allow Allow to to stand stand for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water , , flour flour , , salt salt , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Knead Knead until until dough dough surface surface is is smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Roll Roll over over in in a a greased greased bowl bowl , , and and let let stand stand until until triple triple in in size size , , about about 2 2 1/2 1/2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Punch Punch down down dough dough , , and and spread spread out out on on a a floured floured board board . . Sprinkle Sprinkle baking baking powder powder evenly evenly on on surface surface , , and and knead knead for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide dough dough into into 2 2 parts parts , , and and place place the the piece piece you you are are not not working working with with in in a a covered covered bowl bowl . . Divide Divide each each half half into into 12 12 parts parts . . Shape Shape each each part part into into a a ball ball with with smooth smooth surface surface up up . . Put Put each each ball ball on on a a wax wax paper paper square square . . Let Let stand stand covered covered until until double double , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in wok wok , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium ; ; the the water water should should still still be be boiling boiling . . Place Place steam-plate steam-plate on on a a small small wire wire rack rack in in the the middle middle of of the the wok wok . . Transfer Transfer as as many many buns buns on on wax wax paper paper as as will will comfortably comfortably fit fit onto onto steam-plate steam-plate leaving leaving 1 1 to to 2 2 inches inches between between the the buns buns . . At At least least 2 2 inches inches space space should should be be left left between between steam-plate steam-plate and and the the wok wok . . Cover Cover wok wok with with lid lid . . Steam Steam buns buns over over boiling boiling water water for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . REMOVE REMOVE LID LID BEFORE BEFORE you you turn turn off off heat heat , , or or else else water water will will drip drip back back onto onto bun bun surface surface and and produce produce yellowish yellowish `` `` blisters blisters '' '' on on bun bun surfaces surfaces . . Continue Continue steaming steaming batches batches of of buns buns until until all all are are cooked cooked . 
2 3/4 3/4 cups cups sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup lard lard 1 1 egg egg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon almond almond extract extract 48 48 almonds almonds | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Sift Sift flour flour , , sugar sugar , , baking baking soda soda and and salt salt together together into into a a bowl bowl . . Cut Cut in in the the lard lard until until mixture mixture resembles resembles cornmeal cornmeal . . Add Add egg egg and and almond almond extract extract . . Mix Mix well well . . Roll Roll dough dough into into 1-inch 1-inch balls balls . . Set Set them them 2 2 inches inches apart apart on on an an ungreased ungreased cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Place Place an an almond almond on on top top of of each each cookie cookie and and press press down down to to flatten flatten slightly slightly . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the edges edges of of the the cookies cookies are are golden golden brown brown , , 15 15 to to 18 18 minutes minutes . 
100 ( ( 3.5 3.5 inch inch square square ) ) wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 1 1 3/4 3/4 pounds pounds ground ground pork pork 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons thinly thinly sliced sliced green green onion onion 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 5 5 cups cups finely finely shredded shredded Chinese Chinese cabbage cabbage | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the pork pork , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic , , green green onion onion , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , egg egg and and cabbage cabbage . . Stir Stir until until well well mixed mixed . . Place Place 1 1 heaping heaping teaspoon teaspoon of of pork pork filling filling onto onto each each wonton wonton skin skin . . Moisten Moisten edges edges with with water water and and fold fold edges edges over over to to form form a a triangle triangle shape shape . . Roll Roll edges edges slightly slightly to to seal seal in in filling filling . . Set Set dumplings dumplings aside aside on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface until until ready ready to to cook cook . . To To Cook Cook : : Steam Steam dumplings dumplings in in a a covered covered bamboo bamboo or or metal metal steamer steamer for for about about 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
3 pounds pounds boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dry dry sherry sherry 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | In In a a large large bowl bowl combine combine the the chicken chicken pieces pieces , , sherry sherry , , soy soy sauce sauce and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Mix Mix together together , , cover cover and and refrigerate refrigerate . . Let Let marinate marinate for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch and and the the baking baking powder powder ; ; beat beat in in eggs eggs to to form form a a batter batter . . Coat Coat chicken chicken pieces pieces with with batter batter and and set set aside aside . . In In a a wok wok , , heat heat 2 2 cups cups oil oil to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Working Working in in batches batches , , fry fry chicken chicken pieces pieces in in hot hot oil oil until until browned browned . . Transfer Transfer to to paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl combine combine the the sugar sugar , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch , , broth broth , , lemon lemon juice juice and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Mix Mix together together and and add add lemon lemon slices slices . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in small small saucepan saucepan and and slowly slowly stir stir in in lemon lemon sauce sauce mixture mixture . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring , , until until sauce sauce is is clear clear . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken chicken and and serve serve . 
1 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 2 2 cups cups water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 3 3 green green onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced including including tops tops 1 1 cup cup diced diced ham ham 1/2 1/2 cup cup peas peas 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , drained drained 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce | | Bring Bring the the rice rice and and water water to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over high high heat heat . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender , , and and the the liquid liquid has has been been absorbed absorbed , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Spread Spread cooked cooked rice rice out out on on a a rimmed rimmed baking baking sheet sheet and and refrigerate refrigerate until until cooled cooled , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat sesame sesame oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the green green onions onions , , ham ham , , and and peas peas in in the the hot hot oil oil until until onions onions have have softened softened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the pineapple pineapple chunks chunks into into the the wok wok ; ; cook cook until until pineapple pineapple begins begins to to darken darken , , about about 2 2 minute minute . . Push Push ingredients ingredients to to the the side side of of the the wok wok , , and and pour pour beaten beaten egg egg in in the the center center . . Cook Cook until until egg egg begins begins to to set set , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir together together all all contents contents of of the the wok wok . . Mix Mix the the cooled cooled rice rice , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , white white pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic powder powder into into the the wok wok ; ; stir stir constantly constantly to to keep keep from from sticking sticking . . Cook Cook until until heated heated through through , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the rice rice with with the the soy soy sauce sauce , , and and stir stir to to combine combine . 
8 cubes cubes chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 6 6 cups cups hot hot water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 green green onion onion , , minced minced 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , dissolve dissolve bouillon bouillon in in hot hot water water . . Mix Mix cornstarch cornstarch with with a a small small amount amount of of water water , , and and stir stir into into bouillon bouillon . . Add Add soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , and and green green onion onion . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Gradually Gradually pour pour the the beaten beaten eggs eggs into into the the saucepan saucepan while while stirring stirring . . Serve Serve at at once once . 
1 pound pound sirloin sirloin steak steak , , cut cut into into bite bite size size strips strips 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 cups cups fresh fresh broccoli broccoli florets florets 2 2 small small onions onions , , cut cut into into wedges wedges 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup peanuts peanuts | | Toss Toss beef beef with with soy soy sauce sauce , , cornstarch cornstarch , , crushed crushed red red pepper pepper and and garlic garlic in in non-metal non-metal bowl bowl . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat oil oil in in wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir fry fry beef beef until until no no longer longer pink pink , , 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in broccoli broccoli , , onions onions and and water water chestnuts chestnuts ; ; cook cook 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in broth broth , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir in in peanuts peanuts , , cook cook one one minute minute more more , , and and serve serve . 
1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package small small won won ton ton wrappers wrappers 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 pound pound crabmeat crabmeat , , shredded shredded 1 1 quart quart oil oil for for frying frying | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large heavy heavy skillet skillet or or deep deep fryer fryer to to 360 360 degrees degrees F F ( ( 180 180 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together cream cream cheese cheese , , soy soy sauce sauce , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic , , parsley parsley , , cilantro cilantro and and crabmeat crabmeat . . Place Place 1/2 1/2 to to 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of the the cream cream cheese cheese mixture mixture into into the the center center of of each each wonton wonton wrapper wrapper . . Fold Fold the the won won ton ton wrapper wrapper over over the the stuffing stuffing to to make make a a triangle triangle or or a a half half moon moon , , depending depending on on the the shape shape of of the the won won ton ton wrappers wrappers you you have have purchased purchased . . Moisten Moisten the the edges edges with with a a little little water water , , and and seal seal . . Place Place prepared prepared won won tons tons under under a a slightly slightly moist moist paper paper towel towel until until ready ready for for frying frying . . Add Add 3 3 or or 4 4 wontons wontons to to the the hot hot oil oil , , and and cook cook until until golden golden brown brown , , turning turning once once . . Set Set aside aside on on paper paper towels towels to to drain drain . . Repeat Repeat until until all all wontons wontons have have been been fried fried . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
2 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages Oriental Oriental flavored flavored ramen ramen noodles noodles 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 green green onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 small small carrot carrot , , peeled peeled and and grated grated 1/2 1/2 cup cup green green peas peas 1/4 1/4 cup cup red red bell bell pepper pepper , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil soy soy sauce sauce | | Boil Boil ramen ramen noodles noodles for for 3 3 minutes minutes , , or or until until softened softened , , without without flavor flavor packets packets . . Reserve Reserve flavor flavor packets packets . . Drain Drain noodles noodles , , and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in a a small small skillet skillet . . Scramble Scramble eggs eggs in in a a bowl bowl . . Cook Cook and and stir stir in in hot hot oil oil until until firm firm . . Set Set aside aside . . In In a a separate separate skillet skillet , , heat heat 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir green green onions onions in in oil oil for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes , , or or until until softened softened . . Transfer Transfer to to a a separate separate dish dish , , and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat another another teaspoon teaspoon of of cooking cooking oil oil in in the the same same skillet skillet . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the the the carrots carrots , , peas peas , , and and bell bell peppers peppers separately separately in in the the same same manner manner , , setting setting each each aside aside when when done done . . Combine Combine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a separate separate skillet skillet or or wok wok . . Fry Fry noodles noodles in in oil oil for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes over over medium medium heat heat , , turning turning regularly regularly . . Sprinkle Sprinkle soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and desired desired amount amount of of reserved reserved ramen ramen seasoning seasoning packets packets over over noodles noodles , , and and toss toss to to coat coat . . Add Add vegetables vegetables , , and and continue continue cooking cooking , , turning turning frequently frequently , , for for another another 5 5 minutes minutes . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages Oriental-flavor Oriental-flavor ramen ramen noodle noodle soup soup , , seasoning seasoning packet packet reserved reserved 1/2 1/2 cup cup slivered slivered almonds almonds 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame seeds seeds 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package broccoli broccoli coleslaw coleslaw mix mix 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup salad salad oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup apple apple cider cider vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl in in the the microwave microwave . . Crush Crush the the ramen ramen noodles noodles into into small small pieces pieces ; ; stir stir the the crushed crushed noodles noodles , , almonds almonds , , and and sesame sesame seeds seeds into into the the butter butter . . Spread Spread the the mixture mixture onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown and and crunchy crunchy , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; allow allow to to cool cool completely completely . . Toss Toss together together the the coleslaw coleslaw mix mix and and the the green green onion onion in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Whisk Whisk together together the the salad salad oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and reserved reserved seasoning seasoning packets packets in in a a separate separate bowl bowl ; ; stir stir the the noodle noodle mixture mixture into into the the dressing dressing . . Pour Pour the the dressing dressing over over the the coleslaw coleslaw mix mix and and toss toss to to coat coat . 
4 cups cups water water 4 4 cubes cubes chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried minced minced onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine water water , , bouillon bouillon , , and and parsley parsley and and onion onion flakes flakes . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Lightly Lightly beat beat eggs eggs together together . . Gradually Gradually stir stir into into soup soup . . Remove Remove about about half half a a cup cup of of the the soup soup . . Stir Stir in in cornstarch cornstarch until until there there are are no no lumps lumps , , and and return return to to the the soup soup . . Boil Boil until until soup soup thickens thickens . 
2 pounds pounds boneless boneless sirloin sirloin tip tip roast roast 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry sherry sherry 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons crushed crushed red red pepper pepper 5 5 whole whole dried dried red red chile chile peppers peppers 3/8 3/8 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 4 4 bunches bunches green green onions onions , , cut cut into into 2 2 inch inch pieces pieces | | Partially Partially freeze freeze the the roast roast for for easier easier slicing slicing . . Slice Slice the the roast roast into into 3x1/2 3x1/2 inch inch strips strips , , and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine well well the the soy soy sauce sauce , , sherry sherry , , sesame sesame oil oil , , cornstarch cornstarch , , brown brown sugar sugar , , crushed crushed red red pepper pepper and and whole whole chile chile peppers peppers . . Place Place beef beef in in the the mixture mixture and and coat coat well well . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Place Place green green onions onions in in the the hot hot oil oil . . Cover Cover , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook 6 6 minutes minutes , , or or until until tender tender . . Remove Remove green green onions onions and and set set aside aside . . In In the the same same skillet skillet or or wok wok , , heat heat remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add beef beef mixture mixture and and saute saute for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the beef beef is is thoroughly thoroughly cooked cooked . . Return Return green green onions onions to to the the pan pan and and saute saute for for 30 30 seconds seconds more more , , or or until until heated heated through through . 
1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/8 1/8 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chile chile paste paste 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced | | In In a a saucepan saucepan , , mix mix together together sugar sugar and and cornstarch cornstarch . . Stir Stir in in chicken chicken broth broth , , water water , , vinegar vinegar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , chile chile paste paste , , and and garlic garlic . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer 5 5 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ketchup ketchup 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sake sake 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 pound pound pork pork spareribs spareribs | | In In a a shallow shallow glass glass dish dish , , mix mix together together the the hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , ketchup ketchup , , honey honey , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sake sake , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , lemon lemon juice juice , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic and and five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Place Place the the ribs ribs in in the the dish dish , , and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Cover Cover and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 2 2 hours hours , , or or as as long long as as overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fill Fill a a broiler broiler tray tray with with enough enough water water to to cover cover the the bottom bottom . . Place Place the the grate grate or or rack rack over over the the tray tray . . Arrange Arrange the the ribs ribs on on the the grate grate . . Place Place the the broiler broiler rack rack in in the the center center of of the the oven oven . . Cook Cook for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , turning turning and and brushing brushing with with the the marinade marinade every every 10 10 minutes minutes . . Let Let the the marinade marinade cook cook on on for for the the final final 10 10 minutes minutes to to make make a a glaze glaze . . Finish Finish under under the the broiler broiler if if desired desired . . Discard Discard any any remaining remaining marinade marinade . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried rice rice noodles noodles 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili sauce sauce salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 green green onion onion , , chopped chopped | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add rice rice noodles noodles , , and and cook cook for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; do do not not overcook overcook , , or or they they will will become become mushy mushy . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute garlic garlic until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in noodles noodles , , and and season season with with soy soy sauce sauce , , chili chili sauce sauce , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Sprinkle Sprinkle top top with with chopped chopped green green onion onion . 
1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cooking cooking sherry sherry 1 1 pound pound medium medium shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold water water 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , dissolve dissolve 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons of of cornstarch cornstarch in in the the sherry sherry . . Add Add shrimp shrimp to to the the bowl bowl , , and and toss toss to to coat coat . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add shrimp shrimp , , and and fry fry until until pink pink , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove shrimp shrimp to to a a plate plate with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon , , leaving leaving as as much much oil oil in in the the pan pan as as possible possible . . Add Add garlic garlic to to the the hot hot oil oil , , and and fry fry for for a a few few seconds seconds , , then then add add the the ground ground pork pork . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly until until pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink . . Combine Combine 1 1 cup cup water water , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar and and salt salt ; ; stir stir into into the the wok wok with with the the pork pork . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , cover cover , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and simmer simmer for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix together together the the remaining remaining 1 1 1 1 /2 /2 tablespoons tablespoons of of cornstarch cornstarch and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold water water . . Pour Pour into into the the pan pan with with the the pork pork , , and and also also return return shrimp shrimp to to the the pan pan . . Return Return to to a a simmer simmer , , and and quickly quickly stir stir while while drizzling drizzling in in the the beaten beaten egg egg . . Serve Serve hot hot over over rice rice . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced onion onion 2 2 cups cups broccoli broccoli florets florets 2 2 carrots carrots , , julienned julienned 2 2 cups cups snow snow peas peas 4 4 cups cups dry dry Chinese Chinese noodles noodles 1/4 1/4 cup cup teriyaki teriyaki sauce sauce | | In In a a large large skillet skillet brown brown chicken chicken in in oil oil , , stirring stirring constantly constantly until until juices juices run run clear clear . . Add Add the the onion onion , , broccoli broccoli , , carrots carrots and and peas peas . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and steam steam for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the Chinese Chinese noodles noodles and and teriyaki teriyaki sauce sauce . . Stir Stir noodles noodles into into chicken/vegetable chicken/vegetable mixture mixture , , making making sure sure they they are are coated coated with with sauce sauce . . When When the the noodles noodles wilt wilt , , serve serve . 
8 ounces ounces dry dry fettuccine fettuccine pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons natural natural peanut peanut butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable broth broth 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Cook Cook pasta pasta in in a a large large pot pot of of boiling boiling water water until until al al dente dente . . Rinse Rinse and and drain drain . . Set Set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine peanut peanut butter butter , , broth broth , , soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , and and crushed crushed red red pepper pepper . . Mix Mix well well . . Add Add pasta pasta , , sliced sliced red red pepper pepper , , scallions scallions , , and and cilantro cilantro ; ; toss toss to to combine combine . . Chill Chill . 
4 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry sherry sherry 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon fermented fermented black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and mashed mashed 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili paste paste with with garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package tofu tofu , , drained drained and and cut cut into into cubes cubes 1 1 cup cup frozen frozen green green peas peas 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch , , mixed mixed with with equal equal parts parts water water | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine ground ground pork pork , , sherry sherry and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a separate separate small small bowl bowl , , combine combine black black beans beans , , chile chile paste paste , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , and and ginger ginger ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . If If pork pork is is lean lean , , add add 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil . . Cook Cook pork pork until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Stir Stir in in black black bean bean mixture mixture , , tofu tofu , , and and peas peas . . Pour Pour in in chicken chicken broth broth , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir in in dissolved dissolved cornstarch cornstarch , , and and cook cook until until thickened thickened . 
1/4 cup cup reduced-salt reduced-salt soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons mirin mirin ( ( sweetened sweetened Asian Asian wine wine ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated ginger ginger root root 2 2 crushed crushed garlic garlic cloves cloves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil , , preferably preferably sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 pound pound boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast , , cut cut in in 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 6 6 large large green green onions onions , , cut cut in in 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh or or frozen frozen pepper pepper strips strips 1 1 ( ( 20 20 ounce ounce ) ) can can chunk chunk pineapple pineapple in in juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup sliced sliced almonds almonds ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine first first six six ingredients ingredients ; ; stir stir well well . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet and and stir-fry stir-fry chicken chicken until until brown brown and and done done , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove . . Add Add green green onions onions , , peppers peppers and and pineapple pineapple to to the the skillet skillet ; ; heat heat through through . . Pour Pour in in sauce sauce and and stir stir until until thickened thickened . . Return Return chicken chicken to to skillet skillet ; ; heat heat through through . . Serve Serve with with brown brown rice rice ; ; top top with with optional optional almonds almonds . 
1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon seasoned seasoned rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon finely finely chopped chopped Chinese Chinese chives chives 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame seeds seeds 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chile-garlic chile-garlic sauce sauce ( ( such such as as Sriracha Sriracha ) ) 1 1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped Chinese Chinese chives chives 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 50 50 dumpling dumpling wrappers wrappers 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 quart quart water water , , or or more more as as needed needed | | Combine Combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chives chives , , sesame sesame seeds seeds , , and and chile chile sauce sauce in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Set Set aside aside . . Mix Mix pork pork , , garlic garlic , , egg egg , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chives chives , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and ginger ginger in in a a large large bowl bowl until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Place Place a a dumpling dumpling wrapper wrapper on on a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface and and spoon spoon about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the filling filling in in the the middle middle . . Wet Wet the the edge edge with with a a little little water water and and crimp crimp together together forming forming small small pleats pleats to to seal seal the the dumpling dumpling . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dumpling dumpling wrappers wrappers and and filling filling . . Heat Heat 1 1 to to 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Place Place 8 8 to to 10 10 dumplings dumplings in in the the pan pan and and cook cook until until browned browned , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Pour Pour in in 1 1 cup cup of of water water , , cover cover and and cook cook until until the the dumplings dumplings are are tender tender and and the the pork pork is is cooked cooked through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Repeat Repeat for for remaining remaining dumplings dumplings . . Serve Serve with with soy soy sauce sauce mixture mixture for for dipping dipping . 
1 pound pound halibut halibut fillet fillet 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon coarse coarse sea sea salt salt or or kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons thinly thinly sliced sliced green green onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons toasted toasted sesame sesame oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup lightly lightly packed packed fresh fresh cilantro cilantro sprigs sprigs | | Pat Pat halibut halibut dry dry with with paper paper towels towels . . Rub Rub both both sides sides of of fillet fillet with with salt salt . . Scatter Scatter the the ginger ginger over over the the top top of of the the fish fish and and place place onto onto a a heatproof heatproof ceramic ceramic dish dish . . Place Place into into a a bamboo bamboo steamer steamer set set over over several several inches inches of of gently gently boiling boiling water water , , and and cover cover . . Gently Gently steam steam for for 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour accumulated accumulated water water out out of of the the dish dish and and sprinkle sprinkle the the fillet fillet with with green green onion onion . . Drizzle Drizzle both both soy soy sauces sauces over over the the surface surface of of the the fish fish . . Heat Heat peanut peanut and and sesame sesame oils oils in in a a small small skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until they they begin begin to to smoke smoke . . When When the the oil oil is is hot hot , , carefully carefully pour pour on on top top of of the the halibut halibut fillet fillet . . The The very very hot hot oil oil will will cause cause the the green green onions onions and and water water on on top top of of the the fish fish to to pop pop and and spatter spatter all all over over ; ; be be careful careful . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro sprigs sprigs and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
4 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in pork pork roast roast 3/4 3/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 1/3 1/3 cup cup honey honey 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | To To Marinate Marinate : : Pierce Pierce meaty meaty sides sides of of meat meat with with fork fork ; ; place place roast roast in in a a large large plastic plastic bag bag . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl combine combine the the soy soy sauce sauce , , sherry sherry , , honey honey , , garlic garlic and and ginger ginger . . Mix Mix well well and and pour pour mixture mixture into into bag bag with with pork pork . . Press Press air air out out of of the the bag bag and and tie tie securely securely . . Refrigerate Refrigerate at at least least 8 8 hours hours or or overnight overnight , , turning turning bag bag over over occasionally occasionally . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove roast roast and and marinade marinade from from refrigerator refrigerator . . Reserving Reserving marinade marinade , , remove remove roast roast and and place place in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 1 1 hour hour . . Brush Brush with with reserved reserved marinade marinade ; ; cover cover loosely loosely with with foil foil and and roast roast for for an an additional additional 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours ( ( or or until until the the internal internal temperature temperature has has reached reached 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , brushing brushing several several times times with with marinade marinade . . Remove Remove roast roast from from oven oven and and let let stand stand 15 15 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine pan pan drippings drippings with with remaining remaining marinade marinade . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine cornstarch cornstarch with with cold cold water water , , mix mix together together and and add add mixture mixture to to marinade marinade . . Boil Boil marinade marinade mixture mixture for for 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until mixture mixture thickens thickens . . Serve Serve with with roast roast . 
2 heads heads fresh fresh broccoli broccoli 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar | | Separate Separate broccoli broccoli into into bite-sized bite-sized florets florets . . Peel Peel tough tough skin skin off off stem stem and and quarter quarter it it into into 2 2 inch inch pieces pieces cut cut slantwise slantwise . . Bring Bring 2 2 1/2 1/2 quarts quarts water water , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt to to boil boil . . Add Add broccoli broccoli and and boil boil quickly quickly for for 1 1 minute minute ; ; plunge plunge into into cold cold water water to to set set color color ; ; drain drain and and place place on on platter platter or or in in a a bowl bowl . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , sesame sesame oil oil , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt and and sugar sugar . . Pour Pour mixture mixture over over broccoli broccoli , , toss toss . . This This salad salad can can be be served served hot hot or or cold cold , , your your choice choice ! 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , drained drained ( ( juice juice reserved reserved ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups water water , , divided divided 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 drops drops orange orange food food color color 8 8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch cubes cubes 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups self-rising self-rising flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1 1 egg egg 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 quart quart vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 2 2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces | | In In a a saucepan saucepan , , combine combine 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water , , sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , reserved reserved pineapple pineapple juice juice , , and and orange orange food food coloring coloring . . Heat Heat to to boiling boiling . . Turn Turn off off heat heat . . Combine Combine 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water ; ; slowly slowly stir stir into into saucepan saucepan . . Continue Continue stirring stirring until until mixture mixture thickens thickens . . Combine Combine flour flour , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch , , salt salt , , white white pepper pepper , , and and egg egg . . Add Add 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water gradually gradually to to make make a a thick thick batter batter . . Stir Stir to to blend blend thoroughly thoroughly . . Add Add chicken chicken pieces pieces , , and and stir stir until until chicken chicken is is well well coated coated . . Heat Heat oil oil in in skillet skillet or or wok wok to to 360 360 degrees degrees F F ( ( 180 180 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry chicken chicken pieces pieces in in hot hot oil oil 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . When When ready ready to to serve serve , , layer layer green green peppers peppers , , pineapple pineapple chunks chunks , , and and cooked cooked chicken chicken pieces pieces on on a a platter platter . . Pour Pour hot hot sweet sweet and and sour sour sauce sauce over over top top . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) package package chicken chicken flavored flavored ramen ramen noodles noodles , , crushed crushed , , seasoning seasoning packet packet reserved reserved 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package broccoli broccoli coleslaw coleslaw mix mix 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions 4 4 ounces ounces toasted toasted slivered slivered almonds almonds 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame seeds seeds , , toasted toasted | | In In a a small small saucepan saucepan , , cook cook the the vinegar vinegar and and sugar sugar over over medium medium heat heat until until dissolved dissolved . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in salt salt , , pepper pepper , , ramen ramen seasoning seasoning packet packet and and oil oil . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the uncooked uncooked ramen ramen noodles noodles , , broccoli broccoli coleslaw coleslaw mix mix , , and and green green onions onions . . Pour Pour dressing dressing over over salad salad ; ; toss toss evenly evenly to to coat coat . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until chilled chilled . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with almonds almonds and and sesame sesame seeds seeds before before serving serving . 
4 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 pound pound lean lean boneless boneless pork pork , , cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded cabbage cabbage 1 1 large large carrot carrot , , shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , grated grated 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons molasses molasses 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 quart quart oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 1/2 1/2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages egg egg roll roll wrappers wrappers 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water , , as as needed needed 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups sweet sweet and and sour sour sauce sauce for for dipping dipping | | Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in large large wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir-fry Stir-fry pork pork for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer pork pork to to paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix the the cabbage cabbage , , carrot carrot , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , onion onion , , garlic garlic and and ginger ginger . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix the the cornstarch cornstarch , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and molasses molasses until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in wok wok . . Stir Stir in in cabbage cabbage mixture mixture in in batches batches , , cooking cooking each each batch batch 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes , , just just until until tender tender . . Return Return vegetables vegetables to to bowl bowl , , and and mix mix in in pork pork . . Stir Stir in in the the cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture . . Prepare Prepare a a work work surface surface for for rolling rolling the the egg egg rolls rolls . . Lay Lay several several egg egg roll roll wrappers wrappers in in a a row row . . Place Place the the water water in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; you you 'll 'll use use this this for for sealing sealing . . Place Place about about 2 2 to to 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons filling filling on on each each egg egg roll roll wrapper wrapper . . Dip Dip a a finger finger in in the the water water and and run run it it along along the the edge edge of of the the wrapper wrapper . . Fold Fold one one corner corner of of wrapper wrapper over over filling filling . . Fold Fold wrapper wrapper sides sides over over filling filling . . Roll Roll wrappers wrappers to to form form egg egg rolls rolls ( ( See See Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) . . Heat Heat 1 1 quart quart oil oil in in a a deep deep fryer fryer to to 365 365 degrees degrees F F ( ( 185 185 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry egg egg rolls rolls in in batches batches in in the the hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels and and serve serve with with sweet sweet and and sour sour sauce sauce . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Chinese Chinese cabbage cabbage 1 1 carrot carrot , , shredded shredded 1 1 onion onion , , minced minced 1 1 egg egg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package wonton wonton wrappers wrappers | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together beef beef , , cabbage cabbage , , carrot carrot , , and and onion onion . . Stir Stir in in the the egg egg , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Place Place a a large large teaspoonful teaspoonful of of filling filling in in the the center center of of a a dumpling dumpling skin skin . . Moisten Moisten the the edges edges of of a a wonton wonton with with a a few few drops drops of of water water . . Then Then fold fold the the dumpling dumpling in in half half , , and and pinch pinch the the edges edges together together to to seal seal . . Create Create a a ripple ripple pattern pattern along along the the pinched pinched edge edge by by pinching pinching and and gently gently pushing pushing together together small small segments segments of of it it . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dumplings dumplings . . Boil Boil the the dumplings dumplings in in water water until until they they float float to to the the top top , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ketchup ketchup 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sake sake 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated fresh fresh garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 pound pound pork pork spareribs spareribs | | In In a a shallow shallow glass glass dish dish , , mix mix together together the the hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , ketchup ketchup , , honey honey , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sake sake , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , lemon lemon juice juice , , ginger ginger , , garlic garlic and and five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Place Place the the ribs ribs in in the the dish dish , , and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Cover Cover and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 2 2 hours hours , , or or as as long long as as overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fill Fill a a broiler broiler tray tray with with enough enough water water to to cover cover the the bottom bottom . . Place Place the the grate grate or or rack rack over over the the tray tray . . Arrange Arrange the the ribs ribs on on the the grate grate . . Place Place the the broiler broiler rack rack in in the the center center of of the the oven oven . . Cook Cook for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , turning turning and and brushing brushing with with the the marinade marinade every every 10 10 minutes minutes . . Let Let the the marinade marinade cook cook on on for for the the final final 10 10 minutes minutes to to make make a a glaze glaze . . Finish Finish under under the the broiler broiler if if desired desired . . Discard Discard any any remaining remaining marinade marinade . 
2 ( ( 1 1 1/2 1/2 pound pound ) ) pork pork tenderloins tenderloins , , trimmed trimmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sherry sherry 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon black black bean bean sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 pinch pinch Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder | | Place Place tenderloins tenderloins in in a a shallow shallow glass glass dish dish . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together soy soy sauce sauce , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , sherry sherry , , black black bean bean sauce sauce , , ginger ginger , , sugar sugar , , garlic garlic , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Pour Pour marinade marinade over over pork pork , , and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for at at least least 2 2 hours hours or or up up to to 24 24 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove tenderloins tenderloins from from refrigerator refrigerator while while the the oven oven preheats preheats . . Bake Bake pork pork in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or to to desired desired doneness doneness . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , and and then then slice slice diagonally diagonally into into thin thin slices slices . 
1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped and and divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 head head napa napa cabbage cabbage , , cored cored and and cut cut into into chunks chunks 2 2 cups cups low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil | | Mix Mix the the ground ground pork pork , , egg egg , , cornstarch cornstarch , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of sesame sesame oil oil , , ginger ginger , , monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate , , salt salt , , and and half half of of the the chopped chopped green green onions onions together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Use Use your your hands hands to to mix mix until until the the ingredients ingredients are are evenly evenly distributed distributed . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . When When the the oil oil is is hot hot , , fry fry the the napa napa cabbage cabbage , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until cabbage cabbage begins begins to to wilt wilt , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the chicken chicken broth broth , , water water , , and and soy soy sauce sauce . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then lower lower the the heat heat to to medium medium . . Use Use a a spoon spoon to to form form the the meat meat mixture mixture into into 1 1 inch inch balls balls . . Drop Drop them them into into the the boiling boiling soup soup . . When When the the last last ball ball has has been been added added , , cover cover with with a a lid lid and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust salt salt before before serving serving . . Garnish Garnish with with remaining remaining green green onions onions and and a a drizzle drizzle of of sesame sesame oil oil . 
1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cut cut into into bite bite size size pieces pieces 2 2 cups cups snow snow peas peas 2 2 cups cups cremini cremini mushrooms mushrooms , , stems stems discarded discarded , , caps caps thinly thinly sliced sliced 4 4 bunches bunches green green onions onions , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 2 2 large large ripe ripe but but firm firm avocados avocados - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted , , and and cut cut into into large large chunks chunks | | In In a a bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the chicken chicken broth broth , , soy soy sauce sauce , , cornstarch cornstarch , , and and garlic garlic until until the the cornstarch cornstarch is is smooth smooth , , and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until shimmering shimmering , , and and cook cook and and stir stir the the chicken chicken until until cooked cooked through through and and no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the wok wok and and set set aside aside . . Place Place the the snow snow peas peas into into the the hot hot wok wok , , and and cook cook and and stir stir until until bright bright green green and and still still crisp crisp , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the mushrooms mushrooms and and green green onions onions , , and and toss toss with with the the snow snow peas peas in in the the hot hot oil oil until until the the mushrooms mushrooms are are tender tender and and have have given given up up their their juice juice , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour off off excess excess juices juices , , if if any any . . Return Return the the chicken chicken to to the the wok wok , , and and stir stir briefly briefly over over medium medium heat heat to to combine combine with with the the cooked cooked vegetables vegetables . . Stir Stir the the reserved reserved sauce sauce ingredients ingredients to to recombine recombine , , if if needed needed , , and and add add to to the the wok wok . . Gently Gently stir stir in in the the avocado avocado , , and and let let the the mixture mixture bubble bubble until until the the sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir gently gently to to coat coat everything everything in in sauce sauce , , and and serve serve . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon potato potato starch starch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 2 2 pinches pinches salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 heads heads baby baby bok bok choy choy 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced green green onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package sliced sliced portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms | | In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the oyster oyster sauce sauce , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and brown brown sugar sugar until until the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Mix Mix the the potato potato starch starch and and water water in in a a small small bowl bowl , , and and stir stir it it into into the the oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture until until smooth smooth . . Fill Fill a a pot pot with with water water , , bring bring to to a a boil boil , , and and stir stir in in salt salt and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Place Place the the bok bok choy choy into into the the boiling boiling water water , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , shiny shiny , , and and bright bright green green , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain the the bok bok choy choy , , and and arrange arrange attractively attractively on on a a serving serving platter platter . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok until until the the oil oil shimmers shimmers , , then then toss toss the the green green onion onion and and garlic garlic in in the the hot hot oil oil until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds ; ; stir stir in in the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the mushrooms mushrooms begin begin to to shrink shrink slightly slightly . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the mushrooms mushrooms lightly lightly with with salt salt . . Continue Continue to to cook cook the the mushrooms mushrooms , , stirring stirring often often , , until until they they are are tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the oyster oyster sauce sauce mixture mixture , , then then stir stir until until the the sauce sauce is is thickened thickened and and coats coats the the mushrooms mushrooms , , 30 30 seconds seconds to to 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour the the thickened thickened mushroom mushroom sauce sauce over over the the bok bok choy choy ; ; serve serve immediately immediately . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped broccoli broccoli florets florets 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole straw straw mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast , , cut cut into into strips strips 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth | | Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat until until it it begins begins to to smoke smoke . . Stir Stir in in the the fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , broccoli broccoli , , bamboo bamboo shoots shoots , , water water chestnuts chestnuts , , and and straw straw mushrooms mushrooms . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until all all the the vegetables vegetables are are hot hot , , and and the the broccoli broccoli is is tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the wok wok , , and and set set aside aside . . Wipe Wipe out out the the wok wok . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable in in the the wok wok until until it it begins begins to to smoke smoke . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic , , and and cook cook for for a a few few seconds seconds until until it it turns turns golden-brown golden-brown . . Add Add the the chicken chicken , , and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken has has lightly lightly browned browned on on the the edges edges , , and and is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir together together the the cornstarch cornstarch , , sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , rice rice wine wine , , and and chicken chicken broth broth in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour over over the the chicken chicken , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Boil Boil for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds until until the the sauce sauce thickens thickens and and is is no no longer longer cloudy cloudy . . Return Return the the vegetables vegetables to to the the wok wok , , and and toss toss with with the the sauce sauce . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cream cream style style corn corn 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | In In a a saucepan saucepan , , combine combine the the cream cream style style corn corn and and chicken chicken broth broth . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . In In a a small small bowl bowl or or cup cup , , mix mix together together the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water ; ; pour pour into into the the boiling boiling corn corn soup soup , , and and continue continue cooking cooking for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes , , or or until until thickened thickened . . Gradually Gradually add add the the beaten beaten egg egg while while stirring stirring the the soup soup . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and serve serve . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder | | Mix Mix together together yeast yeast , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup flour flour , , and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup warm warm water water . . Allow Allow to to stand stand for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water , , flour flour , , salt salt , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Knead Knead until until dough dough surface surface is is smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Roll Roll over over in in a a greased greased bowl bowl , , and and let let stand stand until until triple triple in in size size , , about about 2 2 1/2 1/2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Punch Punch down down dough dough , , and and spread spread out out on on a a floured floured board board . . Sprinkle Sprinkle baking baking powder powder evenly evenly on on surface surface , , and and knead knead for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide dough dough into into 2 2 parts parts , , and and place place the the piece piece you you are are not not working working with with in in a a covered covered bowl bowl . . Divide Divide each each half half into into 12 12 parts parts . . Shape Shape each each part part into into a a ball ball with with smooth smooth surface surface up up . . Put Put each each ball ball on on a a wax wax paper paper square square . . Let Let stand stand covered covered until until double double , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in wok wok , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium ; ; the the water water should should still still be be boiling boiling . . Place Place steam-plate steam-plate on on a a small small wire wire rack rack in in the the middle middle of of the the wok wok . . Transfer Transfer as as many many buns buns on on wax wax paper paper as as will will comfortably comfortably fit fit onto onto steam-plate steam-plate leaving leaving 1 1 to to 2 2 inches inches between between the the buns buns . . At At least least 2 2 inches inches space space should should be be left left between between steam-plate steam-plate and and the the wok wok . . Cover Cover wok wok with with lid lid . . Steam Steam buns buns over over boiling boiling water water for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . REMOVE REMOVE LID LID BEFORE BEFORE you you turn turn off off heat heat , , or or else else water water will will drip drip back back onto onto bun bun surface surface and and produce produce yellowish yellowish `` `` blisters blisters '' '' on on bun bun surfaces surfaces . . Continue Continue steaming steaming batches batches of of buns buns until until all all are are cooked cooked . 
1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 13 13 pounds pounds fresh fresh green green beans beans , , trimmed trimmed 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarsely coarsely ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) bottles bottles black black bean bean sauce sauce | | In In a a large large wok wok , , heat heat oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in green green beans beans ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and then then stir stir in in black black bean bean sauce sauce . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until green green beans beans are are tender tender . 
1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) whole whole duck duck , , dressed dressed 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 1 1 orange orange , , sliced sliced in in rounds rounds 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley , , for for garnish garnish 5 5 green green onions onions 1/2 1/2 cup cup plum plum jam jam 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped chutney chutney | | Rinse Rinse the the duck duck inside inside and and out out , , and and pat pat dry dry . . Cut Cut off off tail tail and and discard discard . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the cinnamon cinnamon , , ginger ginger , , nutmeg nutmeg , , white white pepper pepper and and cloves cloves . . Sprinkle Sprinkle one one teaspoon teaspoon of of the the mixture mixture into into the the cavity cavity of of the the duck duck . . Stir Stir one one tablespoon tablespoon of of the the soy soy sauce sauce into into the the remaining remaining spice spice mixture mixture and and rub rub evenly evenly over over the the entire entire outside outside of of the the bird bird . . Cut Cut one one of of the the green green onions onions in in half half and and tuck tuck inside inside the the cavity cavity . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate the the bird bird for for at at least least 2 2 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight . . Place Place duck duck breast breast side side up up on on a a rack rack in in a a big big enough enough wok wok or or pot pot and and steam steam for for an an hour hour adding adding a a little little more more water water , , if if necessary necessary , , as as it it evaporates evaporates . . Lift Lift duck duck with with two two large large spoons spoons , , and and drain drain juices juices and and green green onion onion . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place duck duck breast breast side side up up in in a a roasting roasting pan pan and and prick prick skin skin all all over over using using a a fork fork . . Roast Roast for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . While While the the duck duck is is roasting roasting , , mix mix together together the the remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of soy soy sauce sauce and and honey honey . . After After 30 30 minutes minutes , , brush brush the the honey honey mixture mixture onto onto the the duck duck and and return return it it to to the the oven oven . . Turn Turn the the heat heat up up to to 500 500 degrees degrees F F ( ( 260 260 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Roast Roast for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the skin skin is is richly richly browned browned . . Do Do not not allow allow the the skin skin to to char char . . Prepare Prepare the the duck duck sauce sauce by by mixing mixing the the plum plum jam jam with with the the sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar and and chutney chutney in in a a small small serving serving bowl bowl . . Chop Chop remaining remaining green green onions onions and and place place them them into into a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Place Place whole whole duck duck onto onto a a serving serving platter platter and and garnish garnish with with orange orange slices slices and and fresh fresh parsley parsley . . Use Use plum plum sauce sauce and and onions onions for for dipping dipping . 
1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 small small head head cabbage cabbage , , shredded shredded 4 4 ounces ounces lean lean pork pork tenderloin tenderloin , , cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 6 6 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 8 8 fresh fresh green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 4 4 ounces ounces dry dry Chinese Chinese noodles noodles | | Using Using a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok heat heat oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add cabbage cabbage and and pork pork ; ; fry fry until until pork pork in in no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , approximately approximately 5 5 minutes minutes . . Make Make sure sure to to stir stir your your cabbage cabbage and and pork pork while while it it is is frying frying . . Add Add chicken chicken broth broth , , soy soy sauce sauce , , ginger ginger and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low ; ; simmer simmer 10 10 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Stir Stir in in onions onions and and add add noodles noodles . . Cook Cook until until noodles noodles are are tender tender , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . 
14 ounces ounces skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat - - cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 cup cup oyster oyster sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup snow snow peas peas 1 1 small small head head broccoli broccoli , , cut cut into into florets florets 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water | | Combine Combine the the chicken chicken , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , and and soy soy sauce sauce in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl until until the the chicken chicken is is evenly evenly coated coated with with the the sauce sauce ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion is is limp limp , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add the the chicken chicken and and marinade marinade . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the chicken chicken has has browned browned and and is is no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of water water ; ; season season with with pepper pepper and and sugar sugar . . Add Add the the water water chestnuts chestnuts , , snow snow peas peas , , and and broccoli broccoli . . Cover Cover ; ; boil boil until until the the vegetables vegetables are are just just tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of water water . . Stir Stir into into the the boiling boiling mixture mixture ; ; cook cook until until thick thick and and no no longer longer cloudy cloudy . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons potato potato starch starch 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound pork pork loin loin , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes 1 1 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons potato potato starch starch 1 1 dash dash red red food food coloring coloring 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 cup cup potato potato starch starch 2 2 cups cups peanut peanut oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into large large chunks chunks 2 2 cayenne cayenne peppers peppers , , sliced sliced 4 4 slices slices canned canned pineapple pineapple , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 2 2 green green onions onions , , sliced sliced | | Whisk Whisk together together the the soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons potato potato starch starch , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and black black pepper pepper in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix the the pork pork into into the the marinade marinade and and turn turn until until all all the the pork pork is is covered covered . . Allow Allow to to rest rest for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . To To make make the the sauce sauce , , whisk whisk together together the the water water , , vinegar vinegar , , ketchup ketchup , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , salt salt , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons potato potato starch starch , , and and red red food food coloring coloring in in a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Set Set aside aside . . Dip Dip the the pork pork pieces pieces in in the the beaten beaten egg egg , , then then dredge dredge in in the the 1 1 cup cup potato potato starch starch . . Use Use your your hand hand to to press press the the starch starch onto onto the the pork pork , , assuring assuring a a consistent consistent coating coating . . Heat Heat the the peanut peanut oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat to to a a temperature temperature of of 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry the the pork pork pieces pieces in in the the hot hot oil oil until until crisp crisp and and light light brown brown , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the pork pork from from the the oil oil and and drain drain , , keeping keeping the the oil oil hot hot . . Return Return the the drained drained pork pork pieces pieces to to the the hot hot oil oil for for 30 30 seconds seconds more more . . Remove Remove and and drain drain again again . . Pour Pour off off all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil from from the the wok wok . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of reserved reserved oil oil in in the the wok wok over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook the the green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , pineapple pineapple , , garlic garlic , , and and green green onion onion in in the the heated heated oil oil for for about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the sauce sauce and and stir stir until until it it thickens thickens . . Stir Stir in in the the pork pork and and toss toss until until the the pork pork is is coated coated with with sauce sauce . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and serve serve . 
2 cups cups peanut peanut oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 pound pound peeled peeled and and deveined deveined large large shrimp shrimp 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ketchup ketchup 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 5 5 green green onions onions , , sliced sliced | | Heat Heat peanut peanut oil oil in in a a wok wok to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Toss Toss the the shrimp shrimp with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of cornstarch cornstarch to to coat coat , , then then drop drop into into the the hot hot oil oil , , and and quickly quickly fry fry until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 45 45 seconds seconds . . When When done done , , drain drain shrimp shrimp , , and and set set aside aside . . Pour Pour all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil from from the the wok wok , , then then stir stir in in the the garlic garlic , , ginger ginger , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the garlic garlic is is fragrant fragrant and and beginning beginning to to brown brown , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour in in the the wine wine , , vinegar vinegar , , ketchup ketchup , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of water water , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of water water , , stir stir into into the the boiling boiling sauce sauce , , and and boil boil until until thickened thickened , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir the the shrimp shrimp and and green green onions onions into into the the sauce sauce until until coated coated . 
1 pound pound raw raw shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 4 4 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 shallot shallot , , minced minced 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 leaves leaves napa napa cabbage cabbage , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Asian Asian ( ( toasted toasted ) ) sesame sesame oil oil salt salt and and white white pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch white white sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package round round gyoza/potsticker gyoza/potsticker wrappers wrappers vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water | | Place Place the the shrimp shrimp in in the the work work bowl bowl of of a a food food processor processor , , and and process process until until the the shrimp shrimp are are finely finely ground ground . . Set Set aside aside in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Working Working in in batches batches , , process process the the ground ground beef beef to to a a fine fine grind grind , , and and set set aside aside with with the the shrimp shrimp . . Combine Combine the the shrimp shrimp and and ground ground beef beef with with ginger ginger , , shallot shallot , , green green onions onions , , napa napa cabbage cabbage , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and white white sugar sugar , , and and mix mix the the ingredients ingredients until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . To To fill fill the the pot pot stickers stickers , , place place a a wrapper wrapper on on a a work work surface surface in in front front of of you you , , and and place place a a scant scant teaspoon teaspoon of of filling filling in in the the center center . . With With a a wet wet finger finger , , dampen dampen the the edges edges of of the the wrapper wrapper . . Fold Fold the the dough dough into into a a half-moon half-moon shape shape , , enclosing enclosing the the filling filling , , and and press press and and seal seal to to remove remove extra extra air air and and tightly tightly seal seal the the edges edges together together . . It It 's 's nice nice to to fold fold several several small small pleats pleats in in the the top top half half of of the the wrapper wrapper for for a a traditional traditional look look before before you you seal seal in in the the filling filling . . Refrigerate Refrigerate the the filled filled wrappers wrappers on on a a parchment-lined parchment-lined baking baking sheet sheet while while you you finish finish filling filling and and sealing sealing the the pot pot stickers stickers . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large nonstick nonstick skillet skillet with with a a lid lid over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place pot pot stickers stickers into into the the hot hot oil oil , , flat flat sides sides down down , , without without crowding crowding , , and and let let fry fry until until the the bottoms bottoms are are golden golden brown brown , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn the the dumplings dumplings over over , , and and pour pour the the water water over over them them . . Cover Cover the the pan pan with with a a lid lid and and let let the the dumplings dumplings steam steam until until the the water water has has nearly nearly evaporated evaporated and and the the dumplings dumplings have have begun begun to to fry fry in in oil oil again again , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover the the skillet skillet , , and and let let the the pot pot stickers stickers cook cook until until all all the the water water is is evaporated evaporated and and the the wrapper wrapper has has shrunk shrunk down down tightly tightly onto onto the the filling filling , , another another 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 dash dash hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 clove clove crushed crushed garlic garlic 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cut cut into into bite bite size size pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame seeds seeds 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 ounces ounces fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 4 4 green green onions onions , , sliced sliced diagonally diagonally into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch pieces pieces | | To To Make Make Marinade Marinade : : In In a a nonporous nonporous dish dish or or bowl bowl blend blend cornstarch cornstarch with with wine wine or or sherry sherry ; ; then then stir stir in in lemon lemon juice juice , , soy soy sauce sauce , , hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce , , ginger ginger and and garlic garlic . . Blend Blend together together and and stir stir in in chicken chicken strips strips . . Cover Cover dish dish and and refrigerate refrigerate to to marinate marinate for for 3 3 to to 4 4 hours hours . . In In a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet , , place place sesame sesame seeds seeds and and dry-fry dry-fry over over medium medium heat heat , , shaking shaking the the wok wok , , until until the the seeds seeds are are a a golden golden brown brown color color . . Remove Remove seeds seeds and and set set aside aside . . To To same same wok wok or or skillet skillet add add sesame sesame oil oil and and vegetable vegetable oil oil and and heat heat slowly slowly . . Drain Drain chicken chicken , , reserving reserving marinade marinade , , and and stir-fry stir-fry in in wok wok a a few few pieces pieces at at a a time time , , until until browned browned . . Remove Remove chicken chicken with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and set set aside aside . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms and and green green bell bell pepper pepper to to same same wok wok or or skillet skillet and and stir-fry stir-fry for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the scallions scallions and and stir-fry stir-fry 1 1 minute minute more more . . Return Return chicken chicken to to wok wok , , together together with with reserved reserved marinade marinade , , and and stir stir over over medium medium high high heat heat for for another another 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the ingredients ingredients are are evenly evenly coated coated with with the the glaze glaze . . Sprinkle Sprinkle toasted toasted sesame sesame seeds seeds on on top top and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
4 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 5 5 dried dried red red pepper pepper pods pods 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice wine wine 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 3 3 green green onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the eggs eggs in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of cornstarch cornstarch until until no no lumps lumps remain remain , , then then mix mix in in the the chicken chicken until until evenly evenly coated coated in in batter batter . . In In batches batches , , carefully carefully drop drop the the chicken chicken cubes cubes into into the the hot hot oil oil one one by by one one , , cooking cooking until until the the chicken chicken turns turns golden golden brown brown and and begins begins to to float float , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the dried dried peppers peppers , , and and cook cook for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds until until the the color color brightens brightens . . Add Add the the chicken chicken , , and and cook cook for for a a few few minutes minutes until until the the chicken chicken turns turns a a deep deep , , golden golden brown brown . . Stir Stir the the vinegar vinegar , , rice rice wine wine , , sugar sugar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour into into the the wok wok , , and and boil boil until until the the sauce sauce thickens thickens and and is is no no longer longer cloudy cloudy , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish with with green green onions onions to to serve serve . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 pound pound sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1/4 1/4 pound pound snow snow peas peas 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 pound pound sliced sliced bok bok choy choy salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 3/4 3/4 cup cup skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat - - thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white wine wine 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the mushrooms mushrooms , , snow snow peas peas , , water water chestnuts chestnuts , , and and bok bok choy choy ; ; season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the vegetables vegetables are are just just tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the vegetables vegetables from from the the wok wok and and wipe wipe the the wok wok clean clean . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of vegetable vegetable oil oil in in the the wok wok . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook a a few few seconds seconds until until the the garlic garlic begins begins to to turn turn golden golden brown brown . . Stir Stir in in the the chicken chicken and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the wine wine , , sugar sugar , , and and chicken chicken broth broth ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in the the water water and and stir stir into into the the simmering simmering sauce sauce . . Once Once the the sauce sauce returns returns to to a a simmer simmer , , stir stir until until thick thick and and clear clear , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Return Return the the vegetables vegetables to to the the wok wok and and toss toss until until hot hot and and coated coated with with the the sauce sauce . 
1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 13 13 pounds pounds fresh fresh green green beans beans , , trimmed trimmed 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarsely coarsely ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) bottles bottles black black bean bean sauce sauce | | In In a a large large wok wok , , heat heat oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in green green beans beans ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , for for 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and then then stir stir in in black black bean bean sauce sauce . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until green green beans beans are are tender tender . 
3 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups boiling boiling water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Use Use a a fork fork to to mix mix flour flour and and boiling boiling water water in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Knead Knead dough dough into into a a ball ball . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap ; ; let let dough dough rest rest for for 30 30 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Evenly Evenly divide divide dough dough into into 16 16 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece into into a a 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick circle circle . . Brush Brush each each circle circle with with oil oil , , season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of green green onions onions . . Roll Roll up up , , cigar cigar style style , , and and pinch pinch open open ends ends together together to to form form a a circle circle . . Roll Roll each each circle circle flat flat to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch . . Heat Heat 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Fry Fry cakes cakes until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes on on each each side side . 
2 cups cups soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 cups cups brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder 5 5 pounds pounds chicken chicken wings wings , , split split and and tips tips discarded discarded | | Stir Stir the the soy soy sauce sauce , , brown brown sugar sugar , , and and garlic garlic powder powder together together in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the sugar sugar melts melts completely completely . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and allow allow to to cool cool . . Place Place the the chicken chicken wings wings in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Pour Pour the the soy soy sauce sauce mixture mixture over over the the wings wings and and toss toss to to coat coat evenly evenly . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Allow Allow chicken chicken to to marinate marinate in in refrigerator refrigerator overnight overnight or or 8 8 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Pour Pour the the chicken chicken wings wings and and marinade marinade into into a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover the the baking baking dish dish with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until thoroughly thoroughly hot hot , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the aluminum aluminum foil foil from from the the baking baking dish dish and and continue continue baking baking uncovered uncovered another another 15 15 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 1 1 pound pound pork pork tenderloin tenderloin , , cubed cubed 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons dark dark sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon peanut peanut oil oil 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 green green chile chile peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup julienned julienned carrots carrots 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar snap snap peas peas , , julienned julienned 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions 1/4 1/4 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped peanuts peanuts | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch and and water water . . Mix Mix all all together together until until smooth smooth and and stir stir in in the the pork pork cubes cubes . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 30 30 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine the the lime lime juice juice , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch and and sesame sesame oil oil . . Mix Mix together together and and set set aside aside . . Remove Remove pork pork and and marinade marinade from from refrigerator refrigerator . . In In a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok heat heat peanut peanut oil oil until until hot hot . . Stir Stir in in ginger ginger and and chile chile pepper pepper and and saute saute for for 1 1 minute minute . . Then Then stir stir in in pork pork with with marinade marinade , , carrots carrots , , and and sugar sugar peas peas and and stir-fry stir-fry for for 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes or or until until pork pork is is tender tender . . Pour Pour in in lime lime mixture mixture , , reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in hot hot chile chile oil oil , , green green onions onions and and peanuts peanuts . . Serve Serve ! 
1 tablespoon tablespoon yellow yellow curry curry paste paste 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth , , divided divided 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons curry curry powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 4 4 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 5.6 5.6 ounce ounce ) ) can can coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon canola canola oil oil 3 3 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 2 2 potatoes potatoes - - peeled peeled , , halved halved , , and and sliced sliced | | In In a a bowl bowl , , mash mash the the yellow yellow curry curry paste paste with with about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of chicken chicken broth broth to to help help dissolve dissolve the the paste paste ; ; whisk whisk in in remaining remaining chicken chicken broth broth , , sugar sugar , , curry curry powder powder , , salt salt , , light light soy soy sauce sauce , , and and coconut coconut milk milk . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds ; ; pour pour in in the the oil oil . . Let Let the the oil oil heat heat until until shimmering shimmering , , about about 30 30 more more seconds seconds . . Stir Stir the the chicken chicken , , garlic garlic , , and and ginger ginger into into the the hot hot oil oil ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the chicken chicken has has begun begun to to brown brown and and the the garlic garlic and and ginger ginger are are fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the onion onion and and potatoes potatoes , , toss toss all all ingredients ingredients in in the the hot hot oil oil , , and and pour pour in in the the sauce sauce mixture mixture . . Bring Bring the the sauce sauce to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and cover cover the the wok wok . . Simmer Simmer until until the the chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and the the potatoes potatoes are are tender tender , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons toasted toasted sesame sesame oil oil 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic cloves cloves , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons black black bean bean sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast half half - - cut cut into into cubes cubes 1 1 cube cube chicken chicken bouillon bouillon dissolved dissolved in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup boiling boiling water water 1 1 large large onion onion , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch dissolved dissolved in in 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat a a wok wok over over a a medium medium heat heat until until hot hot , , add add the the toasted toasted sesame sesame oil oil and and heat heat for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and black black bean bean sauce sauce , , and and season season with with salt salt . . Add Add chicken chicken to to the the wok wok ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through . . Pour Pour in in dissolved dissolved chicken chicken bouillon bouillon , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for 6 6 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , green green onions onions , , and and bell bell pepper pepper , , and and season season with with soy soy sauce sauce and and black black pepper pepper . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook for for 8 8 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture , , and and stir stir until until sauce sauce thickens thickens . . Stir Stir in in cilantro cilantro , , and and serve serve . 
1 bunch bunch Gai Gai Lan Lan ( ( Chinese Chinese broccoli broccoli ) ) , , trimmed trimmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add the the Chinese Chinese broccoli broccoli and and cook cook uncovered uncovered until until just just tender tender , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and set set aside aside . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , whisk whisk the the sugar sugar , , cornstarch cornstarch , , soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , sesame sesame oil oil , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , ginger ginger , , and and garlic garlic together together in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until thickened thickened and and no no longer longer cloudy cloudy , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Toss Toss the the broccoli broccoli in in the the sauce sauce and and serve serve . 
2 orange orange pekoe pekoe tea tea bags bags 1 1 cup cup boiling boiling water water 5 5 ice ice cubes cubes 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 3 3 teaspoons teaspoons honey honey | | Steep Steep the the tea tea bags bags in in hot hot water water until until the the color color turns turns dark dark red red , , about about 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Discard Discard the the tea tea bags bags and and let let the the tea tea cool cool . . Combine Combine the the ice ice cubes cubes , , sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk , , and and honey honey in in a a glass glass or or cocktail cocktail shaker shaker . . Pour Pour in in the the tea tea and and mix mix well well . . ( ( If If the the tea tea is is still still warm warm , , the the ice ice may may melt melt ; ; add add more more ice ice if if desired desired . . ) ) A A strong strong , , flavorful flavorful milk milk tea tea is is ready ready for for you you to to enjoy enjoy . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root , , minced minced 6 6 ounces ounces raw raw small small shrimp shrimp , , shelled shelled and and deveined deveined 1 1 quart quart chicken chicken stock stock 8 8 ounces ounces tofu tofu , , diced diced small small 1/3 1/3 cup cup frozen frozen peas peas , , thawed thawed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan or or wok wok over over high high heat heat . . Cook Cook the the garlic garlic and and ginger ginger until until fragrant fragrant and and lightly lightly browned browned . . Stir Stir in in the the shrimp shrimp , , and and stir stir fry fry until until cooked cooked , , then then remove remove and and set set aside aside . . Pour Pour in in the the chicken chicken stock stock and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , add add the the tofu tofu and and peas peas , , season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , then then return return to to a a simmer simmer . . Mix Mix the the cornstarch cornstarch with with a a little little water water to to form form a a thin thin paste paste . . Stir Stir the the cornstarch cornstarch into into the the soup soup and and continue continue to to simmer simmer until until clear clear and and thickened thickened , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir the the shrimp shrimp back back into into the the soup soup and and serve serve . 
4 cups cups vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup rice rice vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 12 12 dried dried whole whole red red chilies chilies , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat the the frying frying oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the eggs eggs in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Mix Mix in in the the 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch until until no no lumps lumps remain remain . . Mix Mix in in the the chicken chicken until until evenly evenly coated coated in in the the batter batter . . In In batches batches , , carefully carefully drop drop the the chicken chicken cubes cubes into into the the hot hot oil oil one one by by one one , , cooking cooking until until the the chicken chicken turns turns golden golden brown brown and and begins begins to to float float , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , combine combine the the sugar sugar , , white white vinegar vinegar , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , sherry sherry , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and garlic garlic in in a a small small saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir constantly constantly until until the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved and and the the sauce sauce thickens thickens to to the the consistency consistency of of light light pancake pancake syrup syrup , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat and and keep keep warm warm . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the dried dried chiles chiles and and ginger ginger ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the ginger ginger begins begins to to brown brown , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Remove Remove the the chiles chiles and and ginger ginger from from the the wok wok and and stir stir them them into into the the sauce sauce . . Place Place the the fried fried chicken chicken cubes cubes into into the the wok wok and and cook cook until until very very crispy crispy and and dark dark golden golden brown brown . . Serve Serve the the chicken chicken with with the the sauce sauce . 
3 1/2 1/2 boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cooked cooked and and diced diced 1 1 head head lettuce lettuce , , torn torn into into small small pieces pieces 4 4 green green onions onions , , sliced sliced 4 4 stalks stalks celery celery , , sliced sliced thin thin 1/2 1/2 cup cup walnuts walnuts , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame seeds seeds , , toasted toasted 6 6 ounces ounces Chinese Chinese noodles noodles , , heated heated briefly briefly to to crisp crisp 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons seasoned seasoned rice rice vinegar vinegar 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup peanut peanut oil oil | | In In a a large large salad salad bowl bowl combine combine the the chicken chicken , , lettuce lettuce , , green green onion onion , , celery celery , , nuts nuts , , seeds seeds and and noodles noodles . . Mix Mix all all together together . . Set Set aside aside . . To To Make Make Dressing Dressing : : Put Put vinegar vinegar in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Dissolve Dissolve sugar sugar and and salt salt in in vinegar vinegar before before adding adding oil oil . . Shake/Beat Shake/Beat well well . . Add Add dressing dressing to to salad salad and and toss toss to to coat coat . . Serve Serve and and enjoy enjoy ! 
4 tablespoons tablespoons water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ketchup ketchup 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon honey honey 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup sliced sliced green green onions onions 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 12 12 ounces ounces cooked cooked shrimp shrimp , , tails tails removed removed | | In In a a bowl bowl , , stir stir together together water water , , ketchup ketchup , , soy soy sauce sauce , , cornstarch cornstarch , , honey honey , , crushed crushed red red pepper pepper , , and and ground ground ginger ginger . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in green green onions onions and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir in in shrimp shrimp , , and and toss toss to to coat coat with with oil oil . . Stir Stir in in sauce sauce . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce is is bubbly bubbly and and thickened thickened . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch cubes cubes 20 20 peeled peeled and and deveined deveined large large shrimp shrimp ( ( 21 21 to to 30 30 per per pound pound ) ) 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons rice rice wine wine 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 16 16 dried dried red red chile chile peppers peppers , , cut cut in in half half 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Szechuan Szechuan peppercorns peppercorns ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice wine wine 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup salted salted peanuts peanuts 4 4 green green onions onions , , cut cut into into 3 3 inch inch lengths lengths 2 2 dashes dashes sesame sesame oil oil , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine the the chicken chicken and and shrimp shrimp in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl along along with with 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons of of soy soy sauce sauce , , 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons rice rice wine wine , , and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with cornstarch cornstarch , , and and mix mix until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Set Set aside aside to to marinate marinate for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat half half of of the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the chicken chicken and and shrimp shrimp , , and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken has has turned turned white white on on the the outside outside and and is is still still a a bit bit pink pink in in the the center center ; ; about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken and and wipe wipe the the wok wok clean clean . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining vegetable vegetable oil oil over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic , , and and cook cook for for a a few few seconds seconds until until the the garlic garlic begins begins to to turn turn brown brown . . Stir Stir in in the the dried dried chiles chiles and and Szechwan Szechwan peppercorns peppercorns ; ; cook cook and and stir stir a a few few seconds seconds until until the the peppers peppers begin begin to to darken darken . . Add Add the the red red and and green green bell bell peppers peppers , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of rice rice wine wine , , and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of sugar sugar . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , stir stir in in the the chicken chicken , , and and cook cook until until the the peppers peppers are are nearly nearly tender tender , , and and the the chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Stir Stir in in the the peanuts peanuts and and green green onion onion until until the the green green onion onion becomes becomes limp limp . . Stir Stir in in a a few few drops drops of of sesame sesame oil oil to to serve serve . 
2 pork pork tenderloins tenderloins 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/3 1/3 cup cup honey honey 1/3 1/3 cup cup ketchup ketchup 1/3 1/3 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup Chinese Chinese rice rice wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red food food coloring coloring 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Cut Cut pork pork with with the the grain grain into into strips strips 1 1 1/2- 1/2- to to 2-inches 2-inches long long ; ; put put into into a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Stir Stir soy soy sauce sauce , , honey honey , , ketchup ketchup , , brown brown sugar sugar , , rice rice wine wine , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , red red food food coloring coloring , , and and Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder together together in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until just just combined combined and and slightly slightly warm warm , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the marinade marinade into into the the bag bag with with the the pork pork , , squeeze squeeze air air from from the the bag bag , , and and seal seal . . Turn Turn bag bag a a few few times times to to coat coat all all pork pork pieces pieces in in marinade marinade . . Marinate Marinate pork pork in in refrigerator refrigerator , , 2 2 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Remove Remove pork pork from from marinade marinade and and shake shake to to remove remove excess excess liquid liquid . . Discard Discard remaining remaining marinade marinade . . Cook Cook pork pork on on preheated preheated grill grill for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Put Put a a small small container container of of water water onto onto the the grill grill and and continue continue cooking cooking , , turning turning the the pork pork regularly regularly , , until until cooked cooked through through , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
6 eggs eggs 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups white white sugar sugar 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cake cake flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons almond almond extract extract 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting | | Arrange Arrange a a large large bamboo bamboo steamer steamer or or a a large large vegetable vegetable steamer steamer over over simmering simmering water water . . Make Make sure sure it it is is large large enough enough to to hold hold the the baking baking pan pan . . Line Line a a 9 9 inch inch square square pan pan with with waxed waxed paper paper . . Separate Separate the the eggs eggs . . Place Place the the yolks yolks in in a a large large bowl bowl along along with with the the sugar sugar and and water water . . Beat Beat with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on medium medium speed speed until until the the mixture mixture has has increased increased about about three three times times in in volume volume . . Whisk Whisk together together the the flour flour and and the the baking baking powder powder ; ; sift sift this this over over the the egg egg mixture mixture , , and and fold fold in in gently gently . . Blend Blend in in the the extract extract . . Whip Whip the the egg egg whites whites in in a a clean clean bowl bowl to to stiff stiff , , not not dry dry , , peaks peaks . . Fold Fold into into yolk yolk base base . . Pour Pour the the batter batter into into the the prepared prepared pan pan , , and and smooth smooth out out to to edges edges . . Rap Rap the the pan pan on on the the counter counter to to get get rid rid of of large large air air bubbles bubbles . . Place Place the the pan pan into into the the steamer steamer . . Cover Cover the the top top of of the the steamer steamer with with a a kitchen kitchen towel towel , , and and place place the the lid lid on on top top ; ; the the towel towel will will absorb absorb any any steam steam that that collects collects on on top top from from dripping dripping onto onto the the cake cake . . Steam Steam for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean . . Cool Cool on on a a wire wire rack rack . . Dust Dust with with confectioner confectioner 's 's sugar sugar . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package wonton wonton wrappers wrappers 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 pound pound shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled , , deveined deveined and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 pound pound bean bean sprouts sprouts 2 2 green green onions onions 3 3 stalks stalks celery celery , , chopped chopped 1 1 medium medium head head cabbage cabbage , , finely finely shredded shredded 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon monosodium monosodium glutamate glutamate ( ( MSG MSG ) ) 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Place Place cabbage cabbage , , bean bean sprouts sprouts , , celery celery , , and and green green onions onions in in a a large large wok wok and and stir stir fry fry over over a a high high heat heat until until vegetables vegetables cook cook down down ( ( add add a a little little water water if if necessary necessary ) ) . . Mix Mix in in shrimp shrimp , , stir stir fry fry until until cooked cooked . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , brown brown ground ground meat meat . . Drain Drain grease grease and and add add the the meat meat to to the the vegetable vegetable and and shrimp shrimp mixture mixture . . Continue Continue to to fry fry over over a a high high heat heat ; ; add add oyster oyster sauce sauce , , soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , and and MSG MSG . . When When well well blended blended , , remove remove mixture mixture from from heat heat . . Place Place a a tablespoon tablespoon of of the the meat meat and and seafood seafood mixture mixture ( ( or or more more , , depending depending on on how how large large your your wonton wonton skins skins are are ) ) into into the the center center of of each each wonton wonton skin skin . . Fold Fold the the wonton wonton skin skin over over to to make make a a package package of of the the meat meat mixture mixture inside inside , , and and seal seal the the skin skin closed closed by by dipping dipping your your finger finger in in a a little little water water and and pressing pressing the the ends ends together together . . Fry Fry the the wontons wontons in in 1/4 1/4 inch inch of of vegetable vegetable oil oil until until golden golden brown brown . 
2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts - - cooked cooked and and cubed cubed 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced almonds almonds 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained and and minced minced 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) can can crispy crispy chow chow mein mein noodles noodles 2/3 2/3 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup diced diced celery celery ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish , , combine combine the the chicken chicken , , broth broth , , soup soup , , milk milk , , almonds almonds , , mushroom mushroom pieces pieces , , water water chestnuts chestnuts , , noodles noodles , , cheese cheese and and celery celery ( ( if if using using ) ) . . Mix Mix well well and and make make sure sure mixture mixture is is spread spread evenly evenly in in the the dish dish . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 45 45 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package extra extra firm firm tofu tofu 1/3 1/3 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Chinese Chinese black black vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Cut Cut the the tofu tofu in in half half lengthwise lengthwise down down the the top top . . Slice Slice into into squares squares 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick . . Stir Stir together together the the soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and sugar sugar in in a a small small bowl bowl , , set set aside aside . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large , , nonstick nonstick pan pan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic and and green green onions onions , , and and cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds . . Brown Brown tofu tofu well well on on each each side side , , then then pour pour in in sauce sauce and and cook cook until until the the sauce sauce has has been been incorporated incorporated by by the the tofu tofu , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Season Season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound shredded shredded cabbage cabbage 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Chinese Chinese cooking cooking wine wine ( ( Shaoxing Shaoxing wine wine ) ) | | Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic , , and and cook cook for for a a few few seconds seconds until until it it begins begins to to brown brown . . Stir Stir in in the the cabbage cabbage until until it it is is coated coated in in oil oil ; ; cover cover the the wok wok , , and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in the the soy soy sauce sauce , , and and cook cook and and stir stir for for another another minute minute . . Increase Increase the the heat heat to to high high , , and and stir stir in in the the Chinese Chinese cooking cooking wine wine . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the cabbage cabbage is is tender tender , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes more more . 
1 large large green green onion onion 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 3/4 3/4 cup cup bean bean sprouts sprouts 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons peanut peanut oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 cups cups sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken or or beef beef broth broth | | Thinly Thinly slice slice green green onion onion , , and and reserve reserve 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the top top for for garnish garnish . . Stir Stir the the remaining remaining onion onion into into the the egg egg along along with with the the bean bean sprouts sprouts and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of soy soy sauce sauce . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of peanut peanut oil oil in in a a large large nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until hot hot . . For For each each pancake pancake , , drop drop 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of egg egg mixture mixture into into the the hot hot oil oil . . Cook Cook until until the the bottoms bottoms are are set set , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then turn turn over over and and continue continue cooking cooking for for another another 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes until until cooked cooked through through . . Transfer Transfer to to a a warm warm serving serving plate plate while while you you make make the the remaining remaining pancakes pancakes . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of peanut peanut oil oil in in the the skillet skillet and and cook cook the the mushrooms mushrooms with with the the remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of soy soy sauce sauce until until the the mushrooms mushrooms are are soft soft , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in the the broth broth , , stir stir into into the the mushrooms mushrooms , , and and cook cook until until thickened thickened . . To To serve serve , , pour pour the the sauce sauce over over the the egg egg foo foo yung yung pancakes pancakes , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with the the reserved reserved onion onion . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons peanut peanut oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds fresh fresh asparagus asparagus , , trimmed trimmed and and cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame seeds seeds | | Whisk Whisk together together the the rice rice vinegar vinegar , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , sugar sugar , , and and mustard mustard . . Drizzle Drizzle in in the the peanut peanut oil oil and and sesame sesame oil oil while while whisking whisking vigorously vigorously to to emulsify emulsify . . Set Set aside aside . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of lightly-salted lightly-salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add the the asparagus asparagus to to the the water water and and cook cook 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes until until just just tender tender , , but but still still mostly mostly firm firm . . Remove Remove and and rinse rinse under under cold cold water water to to stop stop from from cooking cooking any any further further . . Place Place the the asparagus asparagus in in a a large large bowl bowl and and drizzle drizzle the the dressing dressing over over the the asparagus asparagus . . Toss Toss until until evenly evenly coated coated . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with sesame sesame seeds seeds to to serve serve . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package spaghetti spaghetti 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons fish fish sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 pound pound uncooked uncooked medium medium shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped broccoli broccoli 1/4 1/4 yellow yellow onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 3 3 crimini crimini mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 large large eggs eggs | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook spaghetti spaghetti in in the the boiling boiling water water until until cooked cooked through through yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain . . Mix Mix soy soy sauce sauce , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , brown brown sugar sugar , , fish fish sauce sauce , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and ground ground ginger ginger in in a a bowl bowl until until the the sugar sugar dissolves dissolves . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir shrimp shrimp in in hot hot oil oil until until they they start start to to change change color color , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add broccoli broccoli , , onion onion , , and and mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook until until just just beginning beginning to to soften soften , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir garlic garlic through through the the vegetable vegetable mixture mixture . . Push Push the the vegetables vegetables to to one one side side of of the the pan pan . . Cook Cook the the eggs eggs in in the the clear clear space space in in the the pan pan , , scrambling scrambling lightly lightly , , until until no no longer longer moist moist , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the cooked cooked egg egg with with shrimp shrimp and and vegetables vegetables . . Add Add the the cooked cooked noodles noodles and and the the sauce sauce ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until hot hot and and evenly evenly mixed mixed , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes more more . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
2 pounds pounds chicken chicken wings wings 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 10 10 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 clove clove crushed crushed garlic garlic 1 1 green green onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 dash dash sesame sesame oil oil | | Cut Cut the the chicken chicken wings wings into into 3 3 separate separate portions portions . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , combine combine the the chicken chicken , , water water , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , light light soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic and and green green onion onion . . Stir Stir together together and and cook cook for for 15 15 minutes minutes over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame oil oil and and simmer simmer for for another another 15 15 minutes minutes over over low low heat heat . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil and and add add dash dash of of sesame sesame oil oil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , let let cool cool and and serve serve . 
3 pounds pounds chicken chicken wings wings 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons water water 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon gin gin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 quart quart vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying | | FOR FOR MARINADE MARINADE : : Combine Combine the the salt salt , , sugar sugar , , water water , , soy soy sauce sauce , , gin gin and and ginger ginger . . Put Put mixture mixture in in a a zipper zipper style style plastic plastic bag bag , , add add chicken chicken and and marinate marinate for for 24 24 hours hours or or as as long long as as possible possible , , turning turning bag bag frequently frequently . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat fry fry marinated marinated chicken chicken wings wings in in hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes each each side side . . Ready Ready to to serve serve ! 
2 pounds pounds chicken chicken wings wings 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 10 10 tablespoons tablespoons dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 clove clove crushed crushed garlic garlic 1 1 green green onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 dash dash sesame sesame oil oil | | Cut Cut the the chicken chicken wings wings into into 3 3 separate separate portions portions . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , combine combine the the chicken chicken , , water water , , dark dark soy soy sauce sauce , , light light soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic and and green green onion onion . . Stir Stir together together and and cook cook for for 15 15 minutes minutes over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the 1/4 1/4 cup cup sesame sesame oil oil and and simmer simmer for for another another 15 15 minutes minutes over over low low heat heat . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a boil boil and and add add dash dash of of sesame sesame oil oil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , let let cool cool and and serve serve . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons cooking cooking oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 8 8 baby baby corn corn ears ears , , sliced sliced 2/3 2/3 pound pound fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fish fish sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon light light soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cornstarch cornstarch 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons water water 1 1 red red chile chile pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook the the garlic garlic in in the the hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion and and baby baby corn corn and and cook cook until until the the onion onion is is translucent translucent , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the mushrooms mushrooms to to the the mixture mixture and and cook cook until until slightly slightly softened softened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the fish fish sauce sauce , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and oyster oyster sauce sauce into into the the mixture mixture and and stir stir until until incorporated incorporated . . Whisk Whisk the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl until until the the cornstarch cornstarch is is dissolved dissolved into into the the water water ; ; pour pour into into the the mushroom mushroom mixture mixture . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until thickened thickened and and glistening glistening . . Transfer Transfer to to a a serving serving dish dish ; ; garnish garnish with with the the chile chile pepper pepper and and cilantro cilantro to to serve serve . 
1 egg egg 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons tapioca tapioca flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup cold cold water water 4 4 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped green green onion onion 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Asian Asian ( ( toasted toasted ) ) sesame sesame oil oil ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 pinch pinch white white pepper pepper ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Beat Beat the the egg egg and and salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl until until well well mixed mixed . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , combine combine the the tapioca tapioca flour flour with with the the cold cold water water and and stir stir to to dissolve dissolve . . Bring Bring the the chicken chicken broth broth , , ginger ginger , , and and garlic garlic to to a a full full rolling rolling boil boil , , remove remove from from the the heat heat , , and and stir stir in in the the dissolved dissolved tapioca tapioca starch starch . . Boil Boil until until the the soup soup has has thickened thickened and and is is no no longer longer cloudy cloudy , , about about 1 1 minute minute ; ; remove remove from from the the heat heat . . Pour Pour the the egg egg into into the the soup soup in in a a thin thin line line , , and and gently gently stir stir the the egg egg in in a a figure figure 8 8 shape shape , , making making sure sure not not to to overmix overmix the the egg egg too too much much . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the soup soup with with the the chopped chopped onions onions , , sesame sesame oil oil , , and and white white pepper pepper , , and and serve serve . 
1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) envelope envelope active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 cup cup lukewarm lukewarm water water 4 4 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons shortening shortening or or vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup boiling boiling water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 green green onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 pound pound Asian Asian barbequed barbequed pork pork , , cubed cubed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons light light soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Place Place the the warm warm water water in in a a large large bowl bowl , , and and sprinkle sprinkle the the yeast yeast over over the the top top . . Stir Stir in in 1 1 cup cup of of the the flour flour , , and and mix mix thoroughly thoroughly . . Cover Cover with with a a cloth cloth , , and and let let stand stand until until bubbles bubbles appear appear , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve sugar sugar and and shortening shortening in in boiling boiling water water , , and and allow allow to to cool cool to to lukewarm lukewarm . . Stir Stir into into the the yeast yeast mixture mixture along along with with the the remaining remaining flour flour . . When When the the dough dough becomes becomes too too stiff stiff to to stir stir , , turn turn out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface , , and and knead knead until until smooth smooth , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Coat Coat a a large large bowl bowl with with sesame sesame oil oil , , and and place place the the dough dough inside inside . . Turn Turn over over to to coat coat , , and and cover cover the the bowl bowl with with a a damp damp cloth cloth . . Let Let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in size size . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of oil oil in in a a wok wok over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add green green onions onions and and garlic garlic , , and and stir-fry stir-fry for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add pork pork , , and and fry fry for for a a minute minute , , then then stir stir in in the the soy soy sauce sauce , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , and and sugar sugar . . Dissolve Dissolve cornstarch cornstarch in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of water water , , then then stir stir the the mixture mixture into into the the pork pork . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly until until the the pork pork is is coated coated with with a a thickened thickened glaze glaze . . Remove Remove to to a a bowl bowl , , and and allow allow to to cool cool . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the bowl bowl , , and and roll roll it it out out into into one one long long log log . . Slice Slice the the log log into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces . . Flatten Flatten each each piece piece into into a a 3 3 inch inch circle circle using using the the palm palm of of your your hand hand or or a a rolling rolling pin pin . . Place Place 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the pork pork filling filling onto onto the the center center of of each each circle circle , , and and gather gather up up the the edges edges around around the the filling filling and and pinch pinch together together to to close close the the bun bun . . Place Place each each bun bun seam seam side side down down onto onto a a square square of of aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Cover Cover with with a a towel towel , , and and let let rise rise for for about about 1 1 hour hour . . Bring Bring a a couple couple inches inches of of water water to to boil boil in in a a wok wok . . Place Place a a few few buns buns at at a a time time in in a a steamer steamer , , such such as as a a bamboo bamboo steamer steamer for for a a wok wok , , or or a a fitted fitted steam steam tray tray . . Cover Cover , , and and steam steam buns buns over over briskly briskly boiling boiling water water for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining buns buns . 
8 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon black black soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons black black tea tea leaves leaves 2 2 pods pods star star anise anise 1 1 ( ( 2 2 inch inch ) ) piece piece cinnamon cinnamon stick stick 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tangerine tangerine zest zest | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , combine combine eggs eggs and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt ; ; cover cover with with cold cold water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , drain drain , , and and cool cool . . When When cool cool , , tap tap eggs eggs with with the the back back of of a a spoon spoon to to crack crack shells shells ( ( do do not not remove remove shells shells ) ) . . In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , combine combine 3 3 cups cups water water , , soy soy sauce sauce , , black black soy soy sauce sauce , , salt salt , , tea tea leaves leaves , , star star anise anise , , cinnamon cinnamon stick stick , , and and tangerine tangerine zest zest . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 3 3 hours hours . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , add add eggs eggs , , and and let let steep steep for for at at least least 8 8 hours hours . 
1/2 pound pound boneless boneless pork pork loin loin roast roast 1/2 1/2 cup cup barbecue barbecue sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons shallots shallots , , chopped chopped 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dark dark soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 recipe recipe Chinese Chinese Steamed Steamed Buns Buns | | Mix Mix together together pork pork , , barbecue barbecue sauce sauce , , shallots shallots , , flour flour , , chicken chicken stock stock , , soy soy sauce sauce , , oil oil , , and and sugar sugar . . Chill Chill in in refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 6 6 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium medium heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Cook Cook the the pork pork until until an an instant-read instant-read meat meat thermometer thermometer reaches reaches 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Allow Allow to to cool cool ; ; shred shred or or finely finely chop chop the the meat meat . . Prepare Prepare dough dough for for Chinese Chinese Steamed Steamed Buns Buns ( ( see see footnote footnote ) ) . . Shape Shape dough dough into into balls balls . . Roll Roll each each out out into into a a circle circle , , ( ( like like won-ton won-ton wrappers wrappers ) ) . . Put Put 1 1 tablespoonful tablespoonful of of prepared prepared meat meat mixture mixture in in the the center center of of each each circle circle , , and and wrap wrap dough dough around around filling filling . . Place Place seam-side seam-side down down onto onto wax wax paper paper squares squares . . Let Let stand stand until until doubled doubled , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in wok wok , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium ; ; the the water water should should still still be be boiling boiling . . Place Place steam-plate steam-plate on on a a small small wire wire rack rack in in the the middle middle of of the the wok wok . . Transfer Transfer as as many many buns buns on on wax wax paper paper as as will will comfortably comfortably fit fit onto onto steam-plate steam-plate , , leaving leaving 1 1 to to 2 2 inches inches between between the the buns buns . . At At least least 2 2 inches inches space space should should be be left left between between steam-plate steam-plate and and the the wok wok . . Cover Cover wok wok with with lid lid . . Steam Steam buns buns over over boiling boiling water water for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . REMOVE REMOVE LID LID BEFORE BEFORE you you turn turn off off heat heat , , or or else else water water will will drip drip back back onto onto bun bun surface surface and and produce produce yellowish yellowish `` `` blisters blisters '' '' on on bun bun surfaces surfaces . . Continue Continue steaming steaming batches batches of of buns buns until until all all are are cooked cooked . 
1/2 pound pound thinly thinly sliced sliced pork pork loin loin 1/4 1/4 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup rice rice wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 4 4 dried dried Chinese Chinese black black mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried rice rice vermicelli vermicelli 1/4 1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/4 1/4 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried small small shrimp shrimp 3 3 carrots carrots , , cut cut into into matchstick matchstick strips strips 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cups cups bean bean sprouts sprouts 4 4 leaves leaves napa napa cabbage cabbage , , thinly thinly sliced sliced salt salt to to taste taste 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh cilantro cilantro for for garnish garnish | | Place Place the the pork pork into into a a mixing mixing bowl bowl and and pour pour in in the the soy soy sauce sauce and and rice rice wine wine . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with the the white white pepper pepper , , five-spice five-spice powder powder , , and and cornstarch cornstarch . . Mix Mix well well , , then then set set aside aside to to marinate marinate . . Soak Soak the the mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl of of cold cold water water for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , then then pour pour off off the the water water , , cut cut off off and and discard discard the the stems stems of of the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Slice Slice the the mushrooms mushrooms thinly thinly and and reserve reserve . . Soak Soak the the rice rice vermicelli vermicelli in in a a separate separate bowl bowl of of cold cold water water for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then pour pour off off the the water water and and set set the the noodles noodles aside aside . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Pour Pour in in the the eggs eggs , , and and cook cook until until firm firm , , flipping flipping once once , , to to make make a a pancake pancake . . Remove Remove the the egg egg pancake pancake , , and and allow allow to to cool cool , , then then thinly thinly slice slice and and place place into into a a large large bowl bowl . . Heat Heat 2 2 more more tablespoons tablespoons of of the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in the the wok wok over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and dried dried shrimp shrimp , , and and cook cook until until the the shrimp shrimp become become aromatic aromatic , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds . . Next Next , , add add the the pork pork along along with with the the marinade marinade , , and and cook cook until until the the pork pork is is no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the carrots carrots and and onion onion , , and and cook cook until until the the carrots carrots begin begin to to soften soften , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Finally Finally , , add add the the bean bean sprouts sprouts , , napa napa cabbage cabbage , , and and sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the vegetables vegetables are are tender tender , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes more more . . Scrape Scrape the the pork pork mixture mixture into into the the bowl bowl along along with with the the eggs eggs , , then then wipe wipe out out the the wok wok and and return return it it to to the the stove stove over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining vegetable vegetable oil oil in in the the wok wok , , then then stir stir in in the the drained drained rice rice vermicelli vermicelli noodles noodles . . Cook Cook and and stir stir for for a a few few minutes minutes until until the the noodles noodles soften soften , , then then stir stir in in the the reserved reserved pork pork mixture mixture . . Scrape Scrape the the mixture mixture in in to to a a serving serving bowl bowl and and garnish garnish with with cilantro cilantro to to serve serve . 
1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup warm warm milk milk ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 4 4 cups cups bread bread flour flour 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten ( ( divided divided ) ) 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame seeds seeds for for garnish garnish ( ( divided divided ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Whisk Whisk the the sugar sugar and and milk milk together together in in a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl until until the the sugar sugar is is dissolved dissolved . . Stir Stir in in the the yeast yeast , , and and let let stand stand until until a a frothy frothy layer layer forms forms on on the the milk milk , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , most most of of the the beaten beaten eggs eggs ( ( reserve reserve about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of egg egg in in a a small small bowl bowl for for later later ) ) , , vegetable vegetable oil oil , , and and salt salt , , mixing mixing well well until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Turn Turn the the dough dough out out onto onto a a well-floured well-floured work work surface surface , , and and knead knead until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . The The dough dough should should be be slightly slightly sticky sticky . . Place Place the the dough dough into into a a large large oiled oiled bowl bowl , , cover cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth or or plastic plastic wrap wrap , , place place the the bowl bowl in in a a warm warm spot spot , , and and let let rise rise until until doubled doubled , , 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the bowl bowl , , and and knead knead it it briefly briefly to to punch punch down down , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Roll Roll the the dough dough out out into into a a rope rope , , and and cut cut it it into into 12 12 equal-sized equal-sized pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece into into a a ball ball , , and and use use your your fingers fingers to to flatten flatten each each ball ball into into a a disc disc about about 5 5 to to 6 6 inches inches in in diameter diameter . . Place Place about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of your your favorite favorite bun bun filling filling in in the the center center of of the the dough dough circle circle , , and and bring bring the the edges edges of of the the dough dough up up over over the the filling filling . . Pinch Pinch and and twist twist the the top top together together to to seal seal in in the the filling filling . . Make Make sure sure there there are are no no open open spots spots . . Place Place each each filled filled bun bun seam-side seam-side down down on on the the parchment parchment paper paper while while you you finish finish making making the the rest rest of of the the buns buns . . Cover Cover the the filled filled buns buns with with plastic plastic wrap wrap , , and and let let them them rise rise for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of reserved reserved beaten beaten egg egg with with the the water water to to make make an an egg egg wash wash , , and and brush brush the the top top of of each each bun bun with with the the egg egg mixture mixture . . Sprinkle Sprinkle each each bun bun with with a a few few sesame sesame seeds seeds , , and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the tops tops are are browned browned and and shiny shiny , , turning turning the the baking baking sheet sheet around around halfway halfway through through baking baking , , for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve warm warm . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry sherry sherry 2 2 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oyster oyster sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 4 4 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ketchup ketchup 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey | | In In bowl bowl , , stir stir together together sherry sherry , , ginger ginger root root , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , five-spice five-spice powder powder , , soy soy sauce sauce , , white white sugar sugar , , sugar sugar , , hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , ketchup ketchup and and cinnamon cinnamon . . Cut Cut pork pork into into 5x2 5x2 inch inch strips strips . . Place Place strips strips flat flat in in a a shallow shallow baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour marinade marinade over over pork pork strips strips . . Let Let pork pork marinate marinate at at least least 6 6 hours hours in in refrigerator refrigerator . . Drain Drain , , reserving reserving marinade marinade . . Mix Mix honey honey and and 3 3 tablespoon tablespoon reserved reserved marinade marinade in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; set set aside aside . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fill Fill a a shallow shallow roasting roasting pan pan with with water water and and place place in in bottom bottom of of oven oven . . Carefully Carefully place place pork pork strips strips on on a a roasting roasting rack rack above above roasting roasting pan pan so so all all sides sides are are exposed exposed to to heat heat . . If If you you do do n't n't have have a a roasting roasting rack rack , , insert insert the the curved curved end end of of an an S-shaped S-shaped hook hook , , paper paper clip clip , , or or drapery drapery hook hook in in pork pork strips strips and and hang hang them them from from the the top top shelf shelf . . Roast Roast for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Baste Baste pork pork strips strips with with honey honey mixture mixture . . Roast Roast 15 15 minutes minutes and and baste baste again again . . Roast Roast 10 10 minutes minutes longer longer or or until until pork pork strips strips are are crisp crisp and and golden golden brown brown . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and let let cool cool . 
2/3 cup cup hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons rice rice vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced green green onions onions 1/4 1/4 cup cup mushroom mushroom soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon toasted toasted sesame sesame seeds seeds 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 5 5 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless butterflied butterflied leg leg of of lamb lamb | | In In a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag , , mix mix hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , green green onions onions , , mushroom mushroom soy soy sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , honey honey , , sesame sesame oil oil , , sesame sesame seeds seeds , , white white pepper pepper , , and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place lamb lamb in in bag bag , , seal seal , , and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 8 8 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for high high heat heat . . Oil Oil the the grill grill grate grate . . Place Place lamb lamb on on the the grill grill , , and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Cook Cook 15 15 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , to to a a minimum minimum internal internal temperature temperature of of 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , or or to to desired desired doneness doneness . . Transfer Transfer meat meat to to a a serving serving platter platter , , and and allow allow it it to to rest rest for for 20 20 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing and and serving serving . 
4 ounces ounces dry dry Chinese Chinese noodles noodles 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth 6 6 shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast half half 2 2 eggs eggs | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir noodles noodles into into boiling boiling water water and and cook cook until until al al dente dente , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . ( ( For For a a chewier chewier texture texture , , shock shock the the noodles noodles by by pouring pouring 1 1 cup cup cold cold water water into into the the pot pot when when it it starts starts to to foam foam , , then then letting letting it it come come to to a a boil boil again again to to finish finish cooking cooking . . ) ) Drain Drain and and divide divide into into two two serving serving bowls bowls . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , bring bring chicken chicken broth broth to to boil boil in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan with with mushrooms mushrooms and and green green onions onions . . Cut Cut chicken chicken into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces and and stir stir into into boiling boiling broth broth . . When When broth broth returns returns to to a a boil boil , , crack crack eggs eggs into into broth broth . . Continue Continue to to cook cook until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink and and eggs eggs are are cooked cooked , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the chicken chicken soup soup over over the the noodles noodles in in the the bowls bowls and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
4 cups cups seasoned seasoned chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup frozen frozen green green peas peas 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten | | Bring Bring chicken chicken broth broth and and peas peas to to a a boil boil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Slowly Slowly add add egg egg to to the the boiling boiling broth broth , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Serve Serve hot hot , , garnished garnished with with chopped chopped green green onions onions . 
1/2 cup cup hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup jellied jellied cranberry cranberry sauce sauce 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons reduced reduced sodium sodium soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red food food coloring coloring 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder 4 4 pounds pounds pork pork spareribs spareribs , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 2 2 cups cups water water | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , blend blend hoisin hoisin sauce sauce , , cranberry cranberry sauce sauce , , soy soy sauce sauce , , white white wine wine , , honey honey , , and and red red food food coloring coloring . . Mix Mix in in garlic garlic salt salt and and Chinese Chinese five-spice five-spice powder powder . . Place Place ribs ribs in in the the mixture mixture . . Cover Cover , , and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator at at least least 1 1 hour hour . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place water water in in the the bottom bottom of of a a large large roasting roasting pan pan . . Arrange Arrange ribs ribs on on pan pan rack rack , , and and cook cook 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Cover Cover with with remaining remaining sauce sauce mixture mixture , , and and continue continue cooking cooking 30 30 minutes minutes , , to to an an internal internal temperature temperature of of 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 70 70 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
4 cups cups vegetable vegetable broth broth 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package silken silken tofu tofu , , diced diced 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 portobello portobello mushroom mushroom , , halved halved and and sliced sliced 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cabbage cabbage 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Thai Thai chile chile sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon citric citric acid acid powder powder ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Measure Measure broth broth into into a a saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Add Add tofu tofu and and green green onions onions . . Slowly Slowly drizzle drizzle in in the the beaten beaten egg egg to to make make long long strands strands of of egg egg . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms and and cabbage cabbage , , and and simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and season season with with chili chili sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar and and soy soy sauce sauce . . Stir Stir in in citric citric acid acid if if using using . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 1/2 1/2 cup cup sesame sesame oil oil 10 10 slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 1/3 1/3 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh Thai Thai basil basil leaves leaves 3 3 dried dried whole whole red red chilies chilies | | Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken pieces pieces , , and and cook cook until until lightly lightly browned browned on on all all sides sides , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from skillet skillet and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat sesame sesame oil oil in in skillet skillet , , then then add add ginger ginger and and garlic garlic . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the ginger ginger begins begins to to brown brown , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Stir Stir in in the the reserved reserved chicken chicken , , sherry sherry , , soy soy sauce sauce , , water water , , and and sugar sugar . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and simmer simmer until until there there is is only only 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of liquid liquid left left in in the the skillet skillet , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the basil basil and and chiles chiles , , and and increase increase heat heat to to medium medium ; ; continue continue cooking cooking until until the the liquid liquid is is almost almost gone gone . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cold cold water water 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground pork pork 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package firm firm tofu tofu , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons hot hot bean bean sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sesame sesame oil oil | | Mix Mix cornstarch cornstarch and and water water in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; set set aside aside . . Brown Brown ground ground pork pork in in a a small small skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain fat fat . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat in in a a large large skillet skillet or or wok wok . . Cook Cook the the garlic garlic and and ginger ginger root root in in the the oil oil until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in tofu tofu and and cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with the the soy soy sauce sauce , , hot hot bean bean sauce sauce , , and and sugar sugar ; ; stir stir to to combine combine . . Stir Stir in in the the cooked cooked pork pork and and green green onion onion . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until thickened thickened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the sesame sesame oil oil into into the the thickened thickened mabo mabo tofu tofu . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons canola canola oil oil 10 10 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced water water chestnuts chestnuts , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup snow snow peas peas 1 1 cup cup small small white white button button mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 pound pound peeled peeled and and deveined deveined jumbo jumbo shrimp shrimp 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon rice rice vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fish fish sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry sherry sherry 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Heat Heat oil oil in in wok wok or or large large skillet skillet until until very very hot hot . . Cook Cook and and stir stir garlic garlic and and ginger ginger in in the the hot hot oil oil until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add the the water water chestnuts chestnuts , , snow snow peas peas , , mushrooms mushrooms , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and shrimp shrimp to to the the pan pan . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring , , until until shrimp shrimp turns turns pink pink , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine the the chicken chicken broth broth , , rice rice vinegar vinegar , , fish fish sauce sauce , , and and dry dry sherry sherry in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour into into the the shrimp shrimp mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir briefly briefly to to combine combine . . Combine Combine the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water and and stir stir into into the the wok wok . . Stir Stir until until sauce sauce has has thickened thickened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound red red snapper snapper fillets fillets 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sesame sesame oil oil 2 2 shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 tomato tomato , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 fresh fresh red red chile chile pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 sprigs sprigs cilantro cilantro , , finely finely chopped chopped | | Bring Bring about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 inches inches of of water water to to boil boil in in a a steamer steamer fitted fitted with with a a basket basket large large enough enough for for the the snapper snapper to to lie lie flat flat . . Season Season snapper snapper with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and place place in in the the steamer steamer basket basket . . Top Top fish fish with with ginger ginger , , and and drizzle drizzle with with soy soy sauce sauce and and sesame sesame oil oil . . Place Place shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms , , tomato tomato , , and and red red chile chile pepper pepper in in the the steamer steamer basket basket . . Steam Steam fish fish 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until easily easily flaked flaked with with a a fork fork . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with cilantro cilantro . 
