1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 5 5 eggs eggs 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter , , softened softened 1/4 1/4 cup cup sliced sliced almonds almonds 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups pastry pastry cream cream 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream , , chilled chilled 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place a a small small pan pan containing containing about about 2-3 2-3 cups cups of of hot hot water water onto onto the the bottom bottom of of your your oven oven ( ( directly directly onto onto the the bottom bottom of of the the oven oven ) ) to to generate generate steam steam . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a large large baking baking sheet sheet with with shortening shortening and and then then dust dust lightly lightly with with flour flour . . Use Use a a 10 10 inch inch pan pan as as a a template template and and draw draw a a 10 10 inch inch circle circle onto onto the the flour flour dusted dusted sheet sheet using using a a toothpick toothpick . . Set Set aside aside . . Place Place the the 4 4 eggs eggs into into a a small small measuring measuring cup cup and and mix mix with with a a fork fork to to combine combine , , set set aside aside . . Combine Combine the the milk milk , , water water , , salt salt and and butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . When When it it comes comes to to a a full full boil boil , , add add the the flour flour all all at at once once and and stir stir to to make make a a paste paste . . Continue Continue to to stir stir over over the the heat heat for for about about 40 40 seconds seconds until until the the paste paste dries dries a a little little . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and place place paste paste into into a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Let Let cool cool about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . With With a a mixer mixer on on low low , , mix mix the the paste paste and and slowly slowly add add the the beaten beaten eggs eggs . . Mix Mix slowly slowly but but thoroughly thoroughly until until all all of of the the eggs eggs have have been been added added . . Place Place the the paste paste into into a a pastry pastry bag bag fitted fitted with with a a 1/2 1/2 inch inch round round decorating decorating tip tip . . Pipe Pipe the the paste paste out out onto onto the the sheet sheet pan pan following following the the 10 10 inch inch ring ring you you outlined outlined . . Pipe Pipe a a second second ring ring around around the the inside inside next next to to this this ring ring . . Finally Finally , , pipe pipe another another ring ring on on top top of of these these two two rings rings . . Lightly Lightly paint paint the the set set of of rings rings with with the the remaining remaining 1 1 beaten beaten egg egg and and press press the the sliced sliced almonds almonds into into the the paste paste . . Place Place in in the the oven oven on on the the lowest lowest shelf shelf and and bake bake at at 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce the the temperature temperature to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and bake bake about about 12 12 minutes minutes more more or or until until brown brown . . Remove Remove form form the the oven oven and and using using a a long long serrated serrated knife knife slice slice off off the the top top half half of of the the puffed puffed ring ring . . Remove Remove any any bits bits of of raw raw dough dough on on the the inside inside of of the the ring ring . . Replace Replace the the top top and and place place back back in in the the oven oven to to crisp crisp the the dough dough , , about about 5 5 more more minutes minutes . . Cool Cool on on a a rack rack . . To To Make Make The The Filling Filling : : Whip Whip the the pastry pastry cream cream until until smooth smooth . . Place Place the the heavy heavy cream cream into into a a bowl bowl along along with with the the vanilla vanilla and and beat beat on on high high until until soft soft peaks peaks are are formed formed . . Add Add in in the the confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and beat beat a a little little more more . . Fold Fold the the pastry pastry cream cream in in with with the the whipped whipped cream cream and and transfer transfer to to a a piping piping bag bag fitted fitted with with a a star star tip tip . . Pipe Pipe the the cream cream mixture mixture into into the the ring ring and and then then replace replace the the top top . . If If you you wish wish , , sprinkle sprinkle with with additional additional powdered powdered sugar sugar . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 3 3 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 4 4 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , pounded pounded flat flat 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 large large shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups cremini cremini mushrooms mushrooms , , chopped chopped 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , crumbled crumbled 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 slices slices provolone provolone cheese cheese , , halved halved | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil and and butter butter in in a a large large nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Mix Mix 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , Dijon Dijon mustard mustard , , and and garlic garlic in in a a bowl bowl and and stir stir chicken chicken breast breast halves halves into into the the mixture mixture to to coat coat . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken with with marinade marinade into into the the skillet skillet and and cook cook , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter and and keep keep warm warm . . Pour Pour 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock into into skillet skillet and and stir stir to to dissolve dissolve browned browned bits bits of of food food from from the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook and and stir stir shallot shallot and and mushrooms mushrooms until until mushrooms mushrooms are are tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock , , herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until mushrooms mushrooms are are deep deep brown brown in in color color , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Return Return chicken chicken breasts breasts to to pan pan and and top top each each with with 1/2 1/2 slice slice of of provolone provolone cheese cheese . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and let let cheese cheese melt melt ; ; serve serve with with mushrooms mushrooms . 
4 russet russet potatoes potatoes , , sliced sliced into into 1/4 1/4 inch inch slices slices 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into rings rings salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 cups cups milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter a a 1 1 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish . . Layer Layer 1/2 1/2 of of the the potatoes potatoes into into bottom bottom of of the the prepared prepared casserole casserole dish dish . . Top Top with with the the onion onion slices slices , , and and add add the the remaining remaining potatoes potatoes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . In In a a medium-size medium-size saucepan saucepan , , melt melt butter butter over over medium medium heat heat . . Mix Mix in in the the flour flour and and salt salt , , and and stir stir constantly constantly with with a a whisk whisk for for one one minute minute . . Stir Stir in in milk milk . . Cook Cook until until mixture mixture has has thickened thickened . . Stir Stir in in cheese cheese all all at at once once , , and and continue continue stirring stirring until until melted melted , , about about 30 30 to to 60 60 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour cheese cheese over over the the potatoes potatoes , , and and cover cover the the dish dish with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . 
1 recipe recipe pastry pastry for for a a 9 9 inch inch single single crust crust pie pie 6 6 slices slices bacon bacon 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups milk milk 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line pastry pastry shell shell with with foil foil . . Bake Bake in in oven oven for for 8 8 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove foil foil and and bake bake for for an an additional additional 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until crust crust is is set set and and dry dry . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and turn turn down down temperature temperature to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , cook cook bacon bacon until until crisp crisp . . Drain Drain and and reserve reserve 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of drippings drippings . . Crumble Crumble the the bacon bacon and and set set aside aside . . Cook Cook onion onion in in skillet skillet with with reserved reserved drippings drippings ; ; cook cook until until onion onion is is tender tender and and then then drain drain . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together milk milk , , salt salt and and eggs eggs . . Stir Stir in in bacon bacon and and onion onion . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , toss toss cheese cheese and and flour flour together together , , then then add add to to egg egg mixture mixture . . Be Be sure sure to to mix mix well well . . Pour Pour egg egg mixture mixture into into pie pie crust crust . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until knife knife inserted inserted in in center center of of quiche quiche comes comes out out clean clean . . If If necessary necessary , , cover cover edge edge of of crust crust with with foil foil while while baking baking to to prevent prevent burning burning or or overbrowning overbrowning . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 3 3 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 4 4 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , pounded pounded flat flat 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 large large shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups cremini cremini mushrooms mushrooms , , chopped chopped 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , crumbled crumbled 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 slices slices provolone provolone cheese cheese , , halved halved | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil and and butter butter in in a a large large nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Mix Mix 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , Dijon Dijon mustard mustard , , and and garlic garlic in in a a bowl bowl and and stir stir chicken chicken breast breast halves halves into into the the mixture mixture to to coat coat . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken with with marinade marinade into into the the skillet skillet and and cook cook , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter and and keep keep warm warm . . Pour Pour 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock into into skillet skillet and and stir stir to to dissolve dissolve browned browned bits bits of of food food from from the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook and and stir stir shallot shallot and and mushrooms mushrooms until until mushrooms mushrooms are are tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock , , herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until mushrooms mushrooms are are deep deep brown brown in in color color , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Return Return chicken chicken breasts breasts to to pan pan and and top top each each with with 1/2 1/2 slice slice of of provolone provolone cheese cheese . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and let let cheese cheese melt melt ; ; serve serve with with mushrooms mushrooms . 
1 clove clove garlic garlic , , halved halved 2 2 pounds pounds potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups freshly freshly grated grated Comte Comte cheese cheese salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Rub Rub the the cut cut sides sides of of the the garlic garlic over over the the bottom bottom and and sides sides of of an an 8-inch 8-inch baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread a a layer layer of of potato potato slices slices in in the the bottom bottom of of dish dish . . Pour Pour in in a a third third of of the the heavy heavy cream cream ; ; sprinkle sprinkle a a third third of of the the Comte Comte cheese cheese on on top top . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Repeat Repeat layers layers twice twice more more , , ending ending with with layers layers of of heavy heavy cream cream and and Comte Comte cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender and and cheese cheese is is golden golden brown brown , , about about 1 1 hour hour . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups unsalted unsalted butter butter , , at at room room temperature temperature 4 4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar 2 2 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages active active dry dry yeast yeast 1/4 1/4 cup cup lukewarm lukewarm water water 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Sprinkle Sprinkle 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of flour flour over over the the butter butter and and mix mix it it together together with with your your hands hands in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl or or on on a a work work surface surface . . Transfer Transfer the the butter butter to to a a length length of of foil foil or or parchment parchment paper paper and and pat pat it it into into a a 6 6 inch inch square square . . Fold Fold up up the the foil foil to to make make a a packet packet and and refrigerate refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Combine Combine 2 2 cups cups of of the the flour flour with with the the salt salt and and sugar sugar in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Dissolve Dissolve the the yeast yeast in in the the lukewarm lukewarm water water ( ( 100 100 degrees degrees F/38 F/38 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and set set aside aside until until frothy frothy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , warm warm the the milk milk and and the the heavy heavy cream cream to to lukewarm lukewarm . . Add Add the the yeast yeast , , milk milk , , and and cream cream to to the the flour flour mixture mixture and and stir stir well well . . The The dough dough will will have have a a batter-like batter-like consistency consistency . . Stir Stir in in the the remaining remaining 2 2 cups cups of of flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup at at a a time time to to form form a a soft soft dough dough . . It It should should no no longer longer be be sticky sticky . . Turn Turn the the dough dough onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead until until smooth smooth , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the dough dough in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl and and cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 1 1 hour hour . . To To begin begin the the rolling rolling and and folding folding process process , , both both the the butter butter and and the the dough dough should should be be at at a a cool cool room room temperature temperature . . [ [ See See Cook Cook 's 's Note Note . . ] ] Place Place the the dough dough on on a a floured floured surface surface and and roll roll it it into into a a 10-inch 10-inch square square . . Set Set the the block block of of butter butter diagonally diagonally on on the the square square dough dough . . Bring Bring each each point point of of dough dough to to the the center center of of the the butter butter square square ; ; the the edges edges of of the the dough dough should should overlap overlap . . Pinch Pinch the the edges edges together together to to seal seal . . Starting Starting from from the the center center of of the the square square and and working working outward outward , , use use a a rolling rolling pin pin to to roll roll the the dough dough out out into into a a rectangle rectangle . . The The butter butter should should be be pliable pliable enough enough to to roll roll smoothly smoothly with with the the dough dough ; ; if if it it 's 's too too soft soft and and starts starts to to ooze ooze out out the the corners corners , , wrap wrap the the dough dough in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate before before proceeding proceeding . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a long long rectangle rectangle , , approximately approximately 8 8 by by 18 18 inches inches . . Fold Fold the the length length of of dough dough into into thirds thirds , , like like a a business business letter letter . . If If the the dough dough is is still still cool cool , , you you can can continue continue with with another another fold fold . . Otherwise Otherwise , , wrap wrap it it in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 45 45 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and let let it it warm warm up up for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes before before you you begin begin rolling rolling it it out out again again . . Position Position the the dough dough so so that that the the open open ends ends are are at at 12 12 and and 6 6 o'clock o'clock . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a rectangle rectangle , , working working from from the the center center of of the the dough dough and and pressing pressing outwards outwards . . Reposition Reposition the the dough dough as as necessary necessary to to fit fit your your work work space space . . You You should should have have a a long long rectangle rectangle for for the the `` `` book book fold fold . . '' '' Fold Fold both both ends ends of of the the dough dough into into the the middle middle ; ; the the ends ends do do n't n't have have to to be be touching touching , , but but should should be be close close . . Fold Fold the the already-folded already-folded dough dough in in half half ; ; it it will will look look like like a a thick thick book book . . Wrap Wrap the the dough dough well well with with plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and let let it it rest rest at at room room temperature temperature for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a rectangle rectangle again again and and fold fold it it into into thirds thirds , , like like a a business business letter letter . . Wrap Wrap it it in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4-6 4-6 hours hours or or overnight overnight . . To To shape shape the the croissants croissants , , roll roll the the dough dough into into a a 10- 10- by by 38-inch 38-inch rectangle rectangle on on a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface . . It It should should be be about about 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick . . Use Use a a pizza pizza wheel wheel or or sharp sharp paring paring knife knife to to trim trim the the edges edges of of the the dough dough . . Divide Divide the the rectangle rectangle in in half half so so that that you you have have two two 5-inch 5-inch wide wide strips strips of of dough dough . . Use Use a a clean clean yardstick yardstick to to mark mark each each strip strip into into triangles triangles that that are are 5 5 inches inches wide wide at at their their bases bases . . Cut Cut the the triangles triangles and and place place them them onto onto parchment-lined parchment-lined baking baking sheets sheets . . Chill Chill for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , if if necessary necessary . . Starting Starting at at the the base base of of the the triangle triangle , , roll roll the the dough dough up up into into a a log log ; ; the the tip tip of of the the triangle triangle should should be be under under the the body body of of the the croissant croissant to to prevent prevent it it from from unraveling unraveling . . Bend Bend in in the the corners corners to to form form the the traditional traditional crescent crescent shape shape . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining dough dough . . Arrange Arrange the the croissants croissants on on the the parchment-lined parchment-lined baking baking sheets sheets and and allow allow to to rise rise until until doubled doubled in in size size , , about about 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the egg egg with with the the tablespoon tablespoon of of water water to to make make the the egg egg wash wash . . Brush Brush the the croissants croissants with with egg egg wash wash and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until deep deep brown brown , , 22 22 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool on on a a rack rack before before serving serving . 
1/2 cup cup semi-sweet semi-sweet chocolate chocolate chips chips 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 5 5 egg egg yolks yolks 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the chocolate chocolate chips chips into into each each of of four four 6 6 ounce ounce ramekins ramekins . . Place Place them them in in the the microwave microwave , , and and heat heat on on full full power power for for 30 30 second second intervals intervals . . Stir Stir , , and and continue continue heating heating until until chocolate chocolate has has melted melted . . Spread Spread to to cover cover the the sides sides and and bottom bottom of of each each ramekin ramekin . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a saucepan saucepan , , whisk whisk together together the the cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , and and salt salt . . Set Set over over medium medium heat heat , , and and warm warm until until steam steam rises rises from from the the surface surface . . Then Then in in a a separate separate bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the egg egg yolks yolks and and vanilla vanilla . . When When the the cream cream is is hot hot , , ladle ladle a a little little bit bit into into the the egg egg yolks yolks while while whisking whisking quickly quickly . . Ladle Ladle in in a a bit bit more more to to bring bring the the yolks yolks up up to to a a high high temperature temperature without without scrambling scrambling them them . . Whisk Whisk the the yolk yolk mixture mixture into into the the rest rest of of the the cream cream . . Ladle Ladle into into the the chocolate chocolate lined lined ramekins ramekins . . Place Place a a towel towel in in the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish , , and and place place the the filled filled ramekins ramekins on on top top of of the the towel towel . . Place Place in in the the oven oven , , and and pour pour boiling boiling water water carefully carefully into into the the baking baking dish dish until until it it comes comes half half way way up up the the sides sides of of the the ramekins ramekins . . Cover Cover the the dish dish loosely loosely with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , just just until until the the custard custard is is set set . . Remove Remove ramekins ramekins from from the the dish dish , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Before Before serving serving , , sprinkle sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of sugar sugar over over the the top top of of each each creme creme brulee brulee . . Use Use a a kitchen kitchen torch torch or or your your oven oven 's 's broiler broiler to to caramelize caramelize the the sugar sugar . . It It may may take take 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes in in the the broiler broiler . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 pounds pounds cubed cubed stew stew meat meat 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 carrots carrots , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups red red wine wine 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can canned canned onions onions | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine the the flour flour , , salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Coat Coat the the beef beef cubes cubes with with this this mixture mixture . . Melt Melt the the butter butter or or margarine margarine in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add the the meat meat and and brown brown well well on on all all sides sides . . Pour Pour this this into into a a 2 2 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish . . Return Return the the skillet skillet to to the the heat heat and and add add the the onion onion , , carrots carrots and and garlic garlic to to it it . . Saute Saute for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until onion onion is is tender tender . . add add the the wine wine , , bay bay leaf leaf , , parsley parsley , , thyme thyme , , and and liquid liquid from from the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Pour Pour over over meat meat . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Remove Remove cover cover , , add add canned canned onions onions and and mushroom mushroom crowns crowns , , and and bake bake for for 30 30 more more minutes minutes . 
2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cultured cultured buttermilk buttermilk | | Combine Combine cream cream and and buttermilk buttermilk in in a a glass glass jar jar . . Cover Cover tightly tightly with with cheesecloth cheesecloth ( ( or or any any breathable breathable material material ) ) and and let let sit sit at at room room temperature temperature ( ( 70 70 to to 75 75 degrees degrees F F ( ( 21 21 to to 24 24 degrees degrees C C ) ) ) ) for for 24 24 hours hours . . Stir Stir , , screw screw on on lid lid , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 24 24 hours hours before before using using . 
4 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 French French baguette baguette , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute the the onions onions in in the the butter butter or or margarine margarine for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until onions onions are are tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , ground ground black black pepper pepper and and the the sugar sugar to to form form a a pasty pasty mixture mixture . . Now Now add add the the beef beef broth broth , , water water , , parsley parsley and and thyme thyme and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , Then Then add add the the wine wine and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to broil broil . . Fill Fill individual individual oven oven safe safe bowls bowls 3/4 3/4 full full with with the the soup soup . . Place Place a a slice slice of of bread bread on on top top of of the the soup soup and and cover cover with with the the cheese cheese . . Place Place bowls bowls in in the the oven oven . . Broil Broil in in the the oven oven until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly 
6 bone-in bone-in , , skin-on skin-on chicken chicken thighs thighs 1 1 pinch pinch kosher kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces bacon bacon , , sliced sliced crosswise crosswise into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 10 10 large large button button mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 shallots shallots , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 6 6 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Season Season chicken chicken thighs thighs all all over over with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large , , oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to a a paper-towel paper-towel lined lined plate plate , , leaving leaving drippings drippings in in the the skillet skillet . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high and and place place chicken chicken , , skin-side skin-side down down , , into into skillet skillet . . Cook Cook in in hot hot skillet skillet until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a plate plate ; ; drain drain and and discard discard all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon drippings drippings from from the the skillet skillet . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-high medium-high ; ; saute saute mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , and and shallots shallots with with a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until golden golden and and caramelized caramelized , , 7 7 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir flour flour and and butter butter into into vegetable vegetable mixture mixture until until completely completely incorporated incorporated , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour red red wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Stir Stir bacon bacon and and thyme thyme into into red red wine wine mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer until until wine wine is is about about 1/3 1/3 reduced reduced , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour chicken chicken broth broth into into wine wine mixture mixture and and set set chicken chicken thighs thighs into into skillet skillet ; ; bring bring wine wine and and stock stock to to a a simmer simmer . . Cook Cook chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon pan pan juices juices over over the the chicken chicken and and continue continue cooking cooking until until no no longer longer pink pink at at the the bone bone and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter . . Place Place skillet skillet over over high high heat heat and and reduce reduce pan pan juices juices , , skimming skimming fat fat off off the the top top as as necessary necessary , , until until sauce sauce thickens thickens slightly slightly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; remove remove and and discard discard thyme thyme . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken chicken . 
1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted | | In In a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the flour flour and and the the eggs eggs . . Gradually Gradually add add in in the the milk milk and and water water , , stirring stirring to to combine combine . . Add Add the the salt salt and and butter butter ; ; beat beat until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat a a lightly lightly oiled oiled griddle griddle or or frying frying pan pan over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Pour Pour or or scoop scoop the the batter batter onto onto the the griddle griddle , , using using approximately approximately 1/4 1/4 cup cup for for each each crepe crepe . . Tilt Tilt the the pan pan with with a a circular circular motion motion so so that that the the batter batter coats coats the the surface surface evenly evenly . . Cook Cook the the crepe crepe for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes , , until until the the bottom bottom is is light light brown brown . . Loosen Loosen with with a a spatula spatula , , turn turn and and cook cook the the other other side side . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
1 pound pound chicken chicken livers livers , , trimmed trimmed 1 1 cup cup milk milk 8 8 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold unsalted unsalted butter butter , , divided divided 1 1 small small yellow yellow onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns , , divided divided 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , smashed smashed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon fresh fresh thyme thyme 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Scotch Scotch whiskey whiskey | | Combine Combine chicken chicken livers livers and and milk milk in in a a bowl bowl . . Let Let soak soak in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Melt Melt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black peppercorns peppercorns , , garlic garlic , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and thyme thyme ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove chicken chicken livers livers from from the the milk milk with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon ; ; add add to to the the saucepan saucepan with with balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar and and bay bay leaves leaves . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook until until chicken chicken livers livers are are tender tender and and no no longer longer pink pink , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cool cool slightly slightly , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken liver liver mixture mixture to to a a food food processor processor . . Add Add remaining remaining 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons black black peppercorns peppercorns and and Scotch Scotch ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Add Add remaining remaining 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons of of butter butter and and pulse pulse until until fully fully incorporated incorporated into into the the mixture mixture . . Divide Divide blended blended mixture mixture evenly evenly among among 6 6 porcelain porcelain ramekins ramekins . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate until until firm firm , , about about 6 6 hours hours . 
3 fresh fresh eggs eggs 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cold cold water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter , , divided divided 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne or or white white pepper pepper to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Whisk Whisk eggs eggs , , salt salt , , and and water water together together in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Whisk Whisk until until mixture mixture is is very very liquid liquid and and whites whites are are completely completely blended blended in in , , 1 1 or or 2 2 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a 9- 9- or or 10-inch 10-inch non-stick non-stick skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . As As soon soon as as butter butter melts melts and and before before it it starts starts to to sizzle sizzle , , pour pour in in the the whisked whisked eggs eggs . . Stir Stir in in a a circular circular pattern pattern with with a a heat-proof heat-proof spatula spatula , , lifting lifting and and `` `` scrambling scrambling '' '' eggs eggs , , shaking shaking pan pan to to keep keep leveling leveling out out the the mixture mixture , , and and scraping scraping down down the the sides sides . . Continue Continue stirring stirring until until shaking shaking the the pan pan no no longer longer levels levels the the eggs eggs . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low . . Using Using the the spatula spatula , , smooth smooth the the surface surface of of the the eggs eggs to to move move runny runny eggs eggs to to less less runny runny spots spots , , working working toward toward an an even even thickness thickness . . As As soon soon as as surface surface is is wet wet but but not not runny runny , , remove remove from from heat heat . . Starting Starting at at the the handle handle side side of of the the pan pan , , use use the the spatula spatula to to begin begin rolling rolling the the omelette omelette into into a a cylinder cylinder shape shape , , about about 3 3 rolls rolls until until omelette omelette is is about about 2 2 inches inches from from opposite opposite side side of of pan pan . . Use Use spatula spatula to to fold fold the the last last flap flap of of egg egg over over the the top top of of the the cylinder cylinder leaving leaving the the seam seam side side up up . . Add Add cubes cubes of of the the remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter to to pan pan . . Gently Gently push push the the butter butter as as it it melts melts under under the the omelette omelette . . Slide Slide omelette omelette to to edge edge of of pan pan . . Flip Flip onto onto a a plate plate with with the the seam seam side side down down . . Even Even out out the the shape shape , , if if necessary necessary . . You You can can tuck tuck in in the the ends ends , , if if you you like like . . Brush Brush surface surface with with a a bit bit more more butter butter . . Dust Dust with with cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . 
Stew : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarse coarse sea sea salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 2 2 pork pork shanks shanks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil water water to to cover cover 1 1 large large onion onion , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 stalk stalk celery celery , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped Meatballs Meatballs : : 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground pork pork 1 1 small small onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon mustard mustard powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2/3 2/3 cup cup toasted toasted flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil | | Mix Mix sea sea salt salt , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cinnamon cinnamon , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cloves cloves , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper , , nutmeg nutmeg , , and and garlic garlic salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Rub Rub salt salt mixture mixture all all over over pork pork shanks shanks . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Cook Cook pork pork shanks shanks in in the the hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Pour Pour in in enough enough water water to to cover cover the the shanks shanks . . Stir Stir in in coarsely coarsely chopped chopped onion onion and and celery celery . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until pork pork can can be be easily easily removed removed from from the the bones bones , , 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Transfer Transfer pork pork shanks shanks to to a a cutting cutting board board ; ; shred shred pork pork . . Strain Strain cooking cooking liquid liquid , , discarding discarding bones bones , , onion onion , , and and celery celery . . Pour Pour strained strained liquid liquid back back into into the the saucepan saucepan . . Stir Stir in in shredded shredded pork pork . . Mix Mix ground ground pork pork , , finely finely chopped chopped onion onion , , parsley parsley , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cinnamon cinnamon , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cloves cloves , , ginger ginger , , mustard mustard powder powder , , salt salt , , and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Shape Shape into into balls balls . . Pour Pour toasted toasted flour flour into into a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Roll Roll meatballs meatballs in in toasted toasted flour flour . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook meatballs meatballs in in batches batches until until browned browned , , about about 1 1 minute minute per per side side . . Stir Stir browned browned meatballs meatballs into into the the shredded shredded pork pork stew stew . . Simmer Simmer , , stirring stirring in in leftover leftover toasted toasted flour flour , , until until meatballs meatballs are are no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and stew stew is is thick thick , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 3 3 to to 3 3 1/2 1/2 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken 12 12 pearl pearl onions onions 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 4 4 large large mushrooms mushrooms , , cleaned cleaned and and quartered quartered 1/3 1/3 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped onion onion 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups dry dry and and robust robust red red wine wine ( ( such such as as Syrah Syrah or or Grenache Grenache ) ) 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 sprig sprig thyme thyme , , leaves leaves picked picked 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon potato potato starch starch 4 4 slices slices bread bread , , crusts crusts removed removed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons canola canola oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley | | Cut Cut wings wings from from the the chicken chicken , , cutting cutting at at the the joints joints into into 3 3 pieces pieces . . Cut Cut the the remaining remaining chicken chicken into into 4 4 pieces pieces , , 2 2 breasts breasts and and 2 2 legs legs . . Remove Remove skin skin and and bones bones from from the the breasts breasts . . Set Set breasts breasts aside aside with with the the 4 4 meatier meatier wing wing pieces pieces . . Pull Pull of of skin skin from from the the chicken chicken legs legs and and remove remove tips tips from from the the drumsticks drumsticks . . Cut Cut down down each each side side of of the the thigh thigh bone bone and and slide slide your your knife knife under under the the bone bone to to separate separate meat meat from from it it . . Holding Holding the the thigh thigh bone bone , , cut cut all all around around the the joint joint at at the the knee knee and and pull pull out out the the bones bones . . Add Add the the legs legs to to the the breasts breasts and and wings wings . . Combine Combine pearl pearl onions onions , , water water , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , and and sugar sugar in in a a large large saucepan saucepan ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil and and cook cook until until water water is is evaporated evaporated and and onions onions begin begin to to fry fry , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Continue Continue cooking cooking and and stirring stirring , , shaking shaking the the pan pan occasionally occasionally , , until until onions onions are are lightly lightly browned browned and and glazed glazed on on all all sides sides , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook and and stir stir for for 1 1 minute minute . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cover cover . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; add add chicken chicken wings wings and and cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until lightly lightly browned browned on on all all sides sides , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the legs legs ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Add Add breasts breasts ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned , , 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken pieces pieces to to a a plate plate . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place onion onion in in the the same same skillet skillet used used for for the the chicken chicken ; ; cook cook and and stir stir for for 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add garlic garlic ; ; cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 10 10 seconds seconds . . Add Add 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine , , bay bay leaves leaves , , thyme thyme , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Return Return legs legs and and wings wings to to the the skillet skillet ; ; cover cover and and simmer simmer gently gently for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add chicken chicken breasts breasts and and simmer simmer gently gently until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine and and potato potato starch starch together together in in a a bowl bowl until until dissolved dissolved ; ; stir stir into into chicken chicken mixture mixture until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add pearl pearl onions onions and and mushrooms mushrooms with with their their juices juices ; ; keep keep warm warm . . Cut Cut each each slice slice of of bread bread diagonally diagonally in in half half to to form form 2 2 triangles triangles . . Trim Trim each each triangle triangle into into a a heart heart shape shape . . Spread Spread canola canola oil oil onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet and and press press bread bread hearts hearts into into the the oil oil so so they they are are moistened moistened on on both both sides sides . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until croutons croutons are are browned browned , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Dip Dip the the tip tip of of each each crouton crouton into into the the sauce sauce ; ; press press into into parsley parsley until until coated coated . . Cut Cut chicken chicken breasts breasts and and legs legs in in half half . . Serve Serve 1 1 breast breast piece piece , , 1 1 drumstick drumstick or or thigh thigh , , and and 1 1 wing wing per per person person with with 2 2 croutons croutons and and spoonfuls spoonfuls of of sauce sauce and and vegetables vegetables . . Sprinkle Sprinkle remaining remaining parsley parsley over over chicken chicken . 
Bouillabaisse : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup coarsely coarsely chopped chopped onion onion 1/4 1/4 cup cup coarsely coarsely chopped chopped celery celery 1/4 1/4 cup cup coarsely coarsely chopped chopped carrot carrot 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarsely coarsely chopped chopped garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon zest zest 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon saffron saffron threads threads 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon fennel fennel seeds seeds 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon herbes herbes de de Provence Provence 4 4 chicken chicken thighs thighs , , skinned skinned and and trimmed trimmed of of excess excess fat fat 5 5 Yukon Yukon Gold Gold potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and halved halved 1/2 1/2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 10 10 ounces ounces kielbasa kielbasa sausage sausage , , cut cut into into 4 4 pieces pieces 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh tarragon tarragon 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons anise-flavored anise-flavored liqueur liqueur ( ( such such as as Pernod Pernod ) ) ( ( optional optional ) ) Rouille Rouille : : 2 2 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil salt salt to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine onion onion , , celery celery , , carrot carrot , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , chopped chopped garlic garlic , , lemon lemon zest zest , , 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , pepper pepper , , saffron saffron , , fennel fennel seeds seeds , , and and herbes herbes de de Provence Provence in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add chicken chicken and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Cover Cover bowl bowl and and refrigerate refrigerate until until flavors flavors combine combine , , at at least least 15 15 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken mixture mixture to to a a stainless stainless steel steel pot pot ; ; add add potatoes potatoes , , tomatoes tomatoes , , water water , , and and white white wine wine . . Cover Cover and and bring bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Add Add sausage sausage and and cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir tarragon tarragon and and liqueur liqueur into into pot pot . . Remove Remove half half of of a a cooked cooked potato potato and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup liquid liquid from from the the pot pot and and place place in in a a food food processor processor ; ; add add peeled peeled garlic garlic , , paprika paprika , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Process Process until until smooth smooth , , about about 10 10 seconds seconds . . Add Add egg egg yolk yolk and and keep keep processor processor running running ; ; pour pour in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil slowly slowly until until incorporated incorporated and and rouille rouille is is smooth smooth . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Serve Serve bouillabaisse bouillabaisse in in warmed warmed soup soup plates plates with with a a spoonful spoonful of of rouille rouille drizzled drizzled on on top top . 
1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 3 3 eggs eggs 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk 1 1 squeeze squeeze lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh raspberries raspberries 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Whisk Whisk flour flour and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup plus plus 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Whisk Whisk in in eggs eggs and and butter butter . . Add Add 1/4 1/4 cup cup plus plus 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk and and lemon lemon juice juice ; ; whisk whisk until until batter batter is is very very smooth smooth , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour batter batter into into a a 9-inch 9-inch oval oval or or round round baking baking dish dish . . Scatter Scatter raspberries raspberries on on top top . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until puffy puffy and and golden golden , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Let Let cool cool , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Dust Dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . 
1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) leg leg of of lamb lamb 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans cannellini cannellini beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place leg leg of of lamb lamb in in a a large large baking baking dish dish . . Prick Prick in in 6 6 places places with with a a sharp sharp knife knife ; ; insert insert garlic garlic cloves cloves into into the the slits slits . . Brush Brush butter butter over over lamb lamb . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , basting basting regularly regularly with with juices juices , , for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Arrange Arrange cannellini cannellini beans beans around around the the lamb lamb , , mixing mixing to to coat coat with with juices juices . . Continue Continue roasting roasting until until beans beans are are warmed warmed through through and and the the internal internal temperature temperature of of the the lamb lamb reaches reaches 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 71 71 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for medium medium , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes more more . . Let Let lamb lamb rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . . Garnish Garnish with with chopped chopped parsley parsley and and serve serve beans beans on on the the side side . 
6 duck duck legs legs salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 oranges oranges , , zested zested and and juiced juiced 7 7 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Season Season duck duck legs legs with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add duck duck legs legs ; ; cook cook until until skin skin starts starts to to brown brown , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer to to a a large large plate plate . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in the the same same skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in cornstarch cornstarch until until dissolved dissolved . . Return Return duck duck legs legs to to the the skillet skillet . . Pour Pour in in orange orange juice juice and and water water . . Simmer Simmer , , covered covered , , until until duck duck legs legs are are very very tender tender , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour sauce sauce into into a a bowl bowl and and stir stir in in zest zest of of 1 1 orange orange . . Place Place duck duck legs legs on on serving serving plates plates . . Spoon Spoon sauce sauce on on top top . . Garnish Garnish with with remaining remaining orange orange zest zest . 
12 ounces ounces sliced sliced bacon bacon , , cut cut crosswise crosswise into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 4 4 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) balls balls prepared prepared pizza pizza dough dough 1 1 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup fromage fromage blanc blanc ( ( French-style French-style fresh fresh cheese cheese ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup creme creme fraiche fraiche 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper | | Place Place bacon bacon in in a a skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until cooked cooked but but not not crisp crisp and and fat fat has has rendered rendered out out , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain in in a a strainer strainer ; ; reserve reserve the the fat fat . . Place Place skillet skillet back back over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add sliced sliced onions onions . . Cook Cook briefly briefly just just until until they they lose lose their their raw raw edge edge and and soften soften up up slightly slightly , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add a a teaspoon teaspoon or or 2 2 of of bacon bacon fat fat if if pan pan seems seems too too dry dry . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from heat heat and and allow allow to to cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . Mix Mix fromage fromage blanc blanc , , creme creme fraiche fraiche , , nutmeg nutmeg , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper together together in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Place Place 1 1 ball ball of of pizza pizza dough dough on on a a well-floured well-floured surface surface . . Flatten Flatten and and roll roll out out to to a a 10- 10- or or 12-inch 12-inch thin thin circle circle . . Transfer Transfer to to a a cold cold cast cast iron iron pan pan . . Heat Heat over over medium-high medium-high heat heat to to pre-cook pre-cook the the bottom bottom of of the the crust crust . . As As dough dough heats heats and and bubbles bubbles appear appear , , deflate deflate them them with with the the tines tines of of a a fork fork so so crust crust ends ends up up thin thin and and crisp crisp ( ( not not chewy chewy ) ) . . When When bottom bottom is is nicely nicely browned browned and and just just about about to to start start getting getting charred charred , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes , , remove remove from from heat heat . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining dough dough . . Spread Spread a a generous generous amount amount of of cheese cheese mixture mixture over over the the crust crust . . Top Top evenly evenly with with some some onions onions and and then then the the bacon bacon . . Broil Broil 5 5 or or 6 6 minutes minutes until until edges edges are are browned browned and and starting starting to to lift lift . . Repeat Repeat for for remaining remaining tartes tartes . 
6 potatoes potatoes , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 large large onion onion , , cut cut into into matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk , , or or more more as as needed needed 1/4 1/4 cup cup Dijon-mayonnaise Dijon-mayonnaise blend blend ( ( such such as as Hellman's Hellman's ) ) | | Combine Combine potatoes potatoes and and onion onion in in a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle garlic garlic powder powder over over mixture mixture and and add add water water . . Cover Cover bowl bowl and and heat heat in in microwave microwave on on high high until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine butter butter and and flour flour in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until butter butter is is melted melted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Slowly Slowly add add milk milk and and cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until mixture mixture is is the the consistency consistency of of gravy gravy , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat ; ; stir stir in in Dijon-mayonnaise Dijon-mayonnaise blend blend and and mix mix well well . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cover cover . . Drain Drain water water from from potatoes potatoes and and pour pour gravy gravy mixture mixture over over potatoes potatoes ; ; stir stir to to coat coat . . Cover Cover bowl bowl and and microwave microwave on on medium medium until until flavors flavors combine combine , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 4 4 slices slices cooked cooked ham ham 1/2 1/2 cup cup seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Coat Coat a a 7x11 7x11 inch inch baking baking dish dish with with nonstick nonstick cooking cooking spray spray . . Pound Pound chicken chicken breasts breasts to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch thickness thickness . . Sprinkle Sprinkle each each piece piece of of chicken chicken on on both both sides sides with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Place Place 1 1 cheese cheese slice slice and and 1 1 ham ham slice slice on on top top of of each each breast breast . . Roll Roll up up each each breast breast , , and and secure secure with with a a toothpick toothpick . . Place Place in in baking baking dish dish , , and and sprinkle sprinkle chicken chicken evenly evenly with with bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink . . Remove Remove from from oven oven , , and and place place 1/2 1/2 cheese cheese slice slice on on top top of of each each breast breast . . Return Return to to oven oven for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese has has melted melted . . Remove Remove toothpicks toothpicks , , and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 6 6 1/3 1/3 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white wine wine 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 ( ( 1/2 1/2 inch inch ) ) slices slices French French baguette baguette 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Gruyre Gruyre cheese cheese | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat . . Add Add onions onions ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until golden golden , , 15 15 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Add Add water water ; ; cover cover and and cook cook until until onions onions are are very very tender tender , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle flour flour into into the the saucepan saucepan ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until onions onions are are coated coated , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in chicken chicken stock stock and and 1/3 1/3 cup cup plus plus 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white wine wine ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer gently gently until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Set Set oven oven rack rack about about 6 6 inches inches from from the the heat heat source source and and preheat preheat the the oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Toast Toast baguette baguette slices slices until until very very crisp crisp , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide slices slices among among 6 6 oven-safe oven-safe soup soup bowls bowls . . Ladle Ladle soup soup on on top top . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Gruyre Gruyre cheese cheese over over each each bowl bowl . . Transfer Transfer bowls bowls to to the the preheated preheated oven oven ; ; broil broil until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 small small shallot shallot , , minced minced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 portobello portobello mushroom mushroom caps caps 1/2 1/2 pound pound haricots haricots verts verts ( ( French French green green beans beans ) ) , , trimmed trimmed 1/4 1/4 cup cup Sauvignon Sauvignon blanc blanc 3 3 slices slices Paris Paris ham ham , , or or more more to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Gruyre Gruyre cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter and and oil oil in in an an oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until butter butter is is melted melted . . Add Add shallot shallot and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until shallot shallot is is wilted wilted , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Place Place mushrooms mushrooms , , gill gill side side up up , , into into the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook , , flipping flipping once once , , until until liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Return Return mushrooms mushrooms to to gill gill side side up up . . Arrange Arrange green green beans beans around around the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Pour Pour in in wine wine ; ; simmer simmer until until absorbed absorbed , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low ; ; cover cover . . Cook Cook until until mushrooms mushrooms release release their their juices juices and and green green beans beans are are tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Top Top mushrooms mushrooms with with ham ham slices slices ; ; sprinkle sprinkle evenly evenly with with Gruyre Gruyre cheese cheese . . Add Add remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter to to the the green green beans beans . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
Sauce : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup demi-glace demi-glace 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper Steaks Steaks : : 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) beef beef tenderloin tenderloin steaks steaks , , fully fully trimmed trimmed , , pounded pounded to to 1/2 1/2 inch inch thick thick Kosher Kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper , , to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon unsalted unsalted butter butter , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons shallot shallot , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup Cognac Cognac or or brandy brandy 1/4 1/4 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sliced sliced fresh fresh chives chives | | Season Season steaks steaks generously generously on on both both sides sides with with salt salt . . Allow Allow steaks steaks to to come come to to room room temperature temperature while while you you make make the the sauce sauce . . Stir Stir together together demi-glace demi-glace ( ( see see Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) , , mustard mustard , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , tomato tomato paste paste , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over very very high high heat heat , , swirling swirling carefully carefully to to evenly evenly cover cover surface surface . . When When oil oil reaches reaches a a smoking smoking point point , , transfer transfer steaks steaks to to oil oil ; ; add add a a few few chunks chunks of of butter butter . . Sear Sear meat meat on on high high heat heat until until brown brown on on each each side side , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side ; ; keep keep them them on on the the rare rare side side . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read 125 125 degrees degrees F F ( ( 52 52 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer steaks steaks to to a a warm warm plate plate . . Stir Stir shallots shallots into into skillet skillet ; ; cook cook until until softened softened , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from heat heat ; ; pour pour in in Cognac Cognac . . Carefully Carefully ignite ignite with with a a fireplace fireplace lighter lighter . . When When alcohol alcohol burns burns off off and and flames flames go go out out , , return return skillet skillet to to high high heat heat and and bring bring to to a a boil boil ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring , , a a few few minutes minutes to to reduce reduce slightly slightly . . Add Add cream cream and and any any accumulated accumulated juices juices from from the the steak steak . . Cook Cook on on high high heat heat just just until until sauce sauce starts starts to to thicken thicken , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer steaks steaks back back to to pan pan and and reduce reduce heat heat to to low low . . Gently Gently simmer simmer until until meat meat is is heated heated through through and and cooked cooked to to your your desired desired level level of of doneness doneness . . Transfer Transfer to to hot hot plates plates and and serve serve with with a a generous generous spoonful spoonful or or two two of of sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with chives chives . 
4 large large tomatoes tomatoes salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 cup cup bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 pinch pinch herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic powder powder , , or or to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Slice Slice tops tops off off the the tomatoes tomatoes and and reserve reserve . . Scoop Scoop out out the the pulp pulp with with a a spoon spoon and and place place , , with with juices juices , , in in a a bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle some some salt salt into into each each tomato tomato and and set set upside upside down down in in a a casserole casserole dish dish to to drain drain excess excess juice juice . . Chop Chop tomato tomato flesh flesh into into smaller smaller pieces pieces and and place place in in the the casserole casserole dish dish . . Combine Combine ground ground beef beef , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and black black pepper pepper in in the the bowl bowl ; ; mix mix together together with with your your hands hands . . Turn Turn tomatoes tomatoes over over and and stuff stuff them them with with beef beef mixture mixture so so that that a a small small amount amount rises rises over over the the top top . . Cover Cover with with reserved reserved tops tops . . Roll Roll up up any any leftover leftover beef beef mixture mixture into into small small bowls bowls and and place place in in the the casserole casserole dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until tomatoes tomatoes are are tender tender and and beef beef is is cooked cooked through through , , 40 40 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 onions onions , , sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup creme creme fraiche fraiche 1/2 1/2 cup cup fromage fromage blanc blanc ( ( French-style French-style fresh fresh cheese cheese ) ) salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) package package thin-crust thin-crust pizza pizza dough dough , , at at room room temperature temperature 8 8 strips strips cooked cooked bacon bacon 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onions onions and and mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and let let cool cool slightly slightly . . Combine Combine creme creme fraiche fraiche and and fromage fromage blanc blanc in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Spread Spread pizza pizza dough dough onto onto the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Spoon Spoon creme creme fraiche fraiche mixture mixture on on top top . . Cover Cover evenly evenly with with onions onions , , mushrooms mushrooms , , and and bacon bacon strips strips , , leaving leaving a a 1-inch 1-inch border border . . Scatter Scatter mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese on on top top . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until crust crust is is deep deep golden golden brown brown , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . 
Muffins : : 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chestnut chestnut flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 10 10 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted 3 3 eggs eggs Caramelized Caramelized Bananas Bananas : : 2 2 bananas bananas , , peeled peeled and and thickly thickly sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , divided divided Icing Icing : : 1/2 1/2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a muffin muffin tin tin with with paper paper liners liners . . Mix Mix chestnut chestnut flour flour , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , vanilla vanilla sugar sugar , , and and baking baking powder powder together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Whisk Whisk 10 10 tablespoons tablespoons melted melted butter butter and and eggs eggs together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour butter butter mixture mixture into into flour flour mixture mixture ; ; gently gently fold fold together together until until batter batter is is just just moistened moistened . . Scoop Scoop batter batter into into muffin muffin tin tin , , filling filling each each liner liner 2/3 2/3 of of the the way way full full . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven ; ; transfer transfer muffins muffins to to a a wire wire rack rack to to cool cool . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add banana banana slices slices in in a a single single layer layer . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar on on top top and and flip flip the the slices slices . . Cook Cook until until golden golden brown brown , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip again again and and sprinkle sprinkle remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar on on top top . . Continue Continue cooking cooking until until second second side side is is golden golden brown brown , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Mix Mix cream cream cheese cheese and and 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons softened softened butter butter together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and vanilla vanilla extract extract . . Whip Whip vigorously vigorously until until icing icing is is smooth smooth and and reaches reaches spreading spreading consistency consistency , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Slice Slice muffin muffin tops tops off off with with a a paring paring knife knife . . Place Place a a slice slice of of caramelized caramelized banana banana on on each each muffin muffin and and cover cover with with tops tops . . Frost Frost muffins muffins with with cream cream cheese cheese icing icing . . Top Top each each one one with with a a slice slice of of caramelized caramelized banana banana . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 carrots carrots , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 pound pound zucchini zucchini , , sliced sliced 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/4 1/4 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1 1 1/2 1/2 ounces ounces grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Heat Heat butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute onion onion , , carrots carrots , , and and parsley parsley until until lightly lightly browned browned , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Add Add zucchini zucchini and and saute saute until until zucchini zucchini is is tender tender , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter a a baking baking dish dish . . Heat Heat a a kettle kettle or or pot pot of of water water to to boiling boiling . . Beat Beat eggs eggs , , cream cream , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in zucchini zucchini mixture mixture . . Transfer Transfer mixture mixture to to the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Place Place a a clean clean kitchen kitchen towel towel in in the the bottom bottom of of a a roasting roasting pan pan . . Arrange Arrange the the baking baking dish dish on on top top of of the the towel towel and and pour pour boiling boiling water water halfway halfway up up the the sides sides of of the the baking baking dish dish , , creating creating a a water water bath bath . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until bubbling bubbling and and set set , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 1/3 1/3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/3 1/3 cup cup coconut coconut milk milk 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups dried dried shredded shredded coconut coconut 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract Chocolate Chocolate Ganache Ganache : : 6 6 1/4 1/4 ounces ounces 85 85 % % dark dark chocolate chocolate , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a muffin muffin tin tin with with paper paper liners liners . . Combine Combine 2 2 1/3 1/3 cups cups plus plus 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon flour flour , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar , , baking baking powder powder , , and and salt salt together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix vegetable vegetable oil oil , , eggs eggs , , and and coconut coconut milk milk together together in in another another bowl bowl . . Pour Pour over over flour flour mixture mixture ; ; stir stir well well to to combine combine . . Fold Fold shredded shredded coconut coconut and and vanilla vanilla extract extract into into batter batter . . Spoon Spoon batter batter into into prepared prepared muffin muffin tin tin , , filling filling each each liner liner 2/3 2/3 of of the the way way . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted in in the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and transfer transfer to to a a wire wire rack rack until until cooled cooled completely completely . . Place Place chopped chopped chocolate chocolate in in a a bowl bowl . . Heat Heat cream cream in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until edges edges are are bubbling bubbling , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour over over chocolate chocolate in in the the bowl bowl . . Mix Mix until until ganache ganache is is smooth smooth and and shiny shiny . . Chill Chill until until firm firm , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove ganache ganache from from the the refrigerator refrigerator . . Beat Beat with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on medium medium speed speed until until fluffy fluffy and and slightly slightly lightened lightened in in color color , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a piping piping bag bag fitted fitted with with a a round round tip tip . . Frost Frost cooled cooled cupcakes cupcakes with with whipped whipped ganache ganache . 
4 1/4 1/4 cups cups whole whole milk milk 3 3 vanilla vanilla bean bean pods pods , , split split lengthwise lengthwise 4 4 eggs eggs 4 4 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 7 7 ounces ounces all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dark dark rum rum 3 3 1/2 1/2 ounces ounces butter butter , , softened softened | | Combine Combine milk milk and and vanilla vanilla beans beans in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and let let cool cool to to lukewarm lukewarm , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Beat Beat eggs eggs and and egg egg yolks yolks together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Gently Gently stir stir in in confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , flour flour , , and and rum rum . . Pour Pour in in warm warm milk milk mixture mixture , , discarding discarding vanilla vanilla beans beans ; ; gently gently stir stir until until smooth smooth . . Cover Cover bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and let let batter batter rest rest in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 24 24 hours hours . . Coat Coat fluted fluted molds molds with with butter butter and and freeze freeze until until coating coating is is set set , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove batter batter from from the the refrigerator refrigerator , , uncover uncover , , and and pour pour into into molds molds , , filling filling each each about about 3/4 3/4 full full . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until deep deep brown brown in in color color , , about about 50 50 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and immediately immediately invert invert each each canele canele on on a a wire wire rack rack to to cool cool , , 30 30 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . 
3 egg egg whites whites 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup ground ground almonds almonds 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons slivered slivered almonds almonds , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line 2 2 baking baking sheets sheets with with waxed waxed paper paper . . Beat Beat egg egg whites whites in in a a bowl bowl with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until fluffy fluffy . . Add Add sugar sugar gradually gradually , , continuing continuing to to beat beat on on high high until until firm firm peaks peaks form form . . Fold Fold in in ground ground almonds almonds gently gently until until incorporated incorporated into into the the dough dough . . Drop Drop tablespoonfuls tablespoonfuls of of dough dough 2 2 inches inches apart apart onto onto baking baking sheets sheets . . Sprinkle Sprinkle slivered slivered almonds almonds onto onto tops tops . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden , , 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1 cup cup water water 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons bread bread machine machine yeast yeast 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Place Place 1 1 cup cup water water , , bread bread flour flour , , sugar sugar , , salt salt and and yeast yeast into into bread bread machine machine pan pan in in the the order order recommended recommended by by manufacturer manufacturer . . Select Select Dough Dough cycle cycle , , and and press press Start Start . . When When the the cycle cycle has has completed completed , , place place dough dough in in a a greased greased bowl bowl , , turning turning to to coat coat all all sides sides . . Cover Cover , , and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until doubled doubled in in bulk bulk . . Dough Dough is is ready ready if if indentation indentation remains remains when when touched touched . . Punch Punch down down dough dough . . On On a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface , , roll roll into into a a 16x12 16x12 inch inch rectangle rectangle . . Cut Cut dough dough in in half half , , creating creating two two 8x12 8x12 inch inch rectangles rectangles . . Roll Roll up up each each half half of of dough dough tightly tightly , , beginning beginning at at 12 12 inch inch side side , , pounding pounding out out any any air air bubbles bubbles as as you you go go . . Roll Roll gently gently back back and and forth forth to to taper taper end end . . Place Place 3 3 inches inches apart apart on on a a greased greased cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Make Make deep deep diagonal diagonal slashes slashes across across loaves loaves every every 2 2 inches inches , , or or make make one one lengthwise lengthwise slash slash on on each each loaf loaf . . Cover Cover , , and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place for for 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until doubled doubled in in bulk bulk . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Mix Mix egg egg yolk yolk with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water ; ; brush brush over over tops tops of of loaves loaves . . Bake Bake for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . 
Macarons : : 3 3 extra-large extra-large egg egg whites whites 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 2/3 2/3 cups cups confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup almond almond flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt Buttercream Buttercream Filling Filling : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 2/3 2/3 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Beat Beat egg egg whites whites in in a a glass glass , , metal metal , , or or ceramic ceramic bowl bowl with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on medium medium speed speed until until foamy foamy , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add white white sugar sugar and and continue continue to to beat beat until until peaks peaks are are stiff stiff enough enough they they stay stay in in place place when when the the bowl bowl is is turned turned upside upside down down , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Sift Sift 1 1 2/3 2/3 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , almond almond flour flour , , and and salt salt together together twice twice . . Fold Fold into into the the egg egg whites whites until until batter batter is is creamy creamy and and falls falls slowly slowly off off the the lifted lifted spatula spatula , , about about 50 50 turns turns with with a a spatula spatula . . Transfer Transfer batter batter to to a a piping piping bag bag fitted fitted with with a a round round tip tip . . Pipe Pipe batter batter onto onto the the parchment parchment paper paper , , using using a a circular circular motion motion to to make make macarons macarons 1 1 inch inch in in diameter diameter . . Tap Tap the the baking baking sheet sheet against against the the counter counter about about 10 10 times times to to release release any any air air bubbles bubbles . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 9 9 minutes minutes . . Rotate Rotate baking baking sheet sheet and and continue continue baking baking until until macarons macarons are are shiny shiny and and rise rise slightly slightly to to form form `` `` feet feet '' '' , , about about 9 9 minutes minutes more more . . Peel Peel off off the the parchment parchment paper paper and and allow allow to to cool cool completely completely , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Beat Beat butter butter , , 2/3 2/3 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until creamy creamy and and thick thick , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer filling filling to to a a piping piping bag bag fitted fitted with with a a round round tip tip . . Pipe Pipe a a small small amount amount of of filling filling onto onto the the center center of of 1 1 macaron macaron ; ; top top with with another another macaron macaron and and press press gently gently to to sandwich sandwich the the filling filling between between the the two two . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 hanger hanger steaks steaks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced shallot shallot 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup beef beef broth broth 2 2 anchovy anchovy fillets fillets , , chopped chopped , , or or more more to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh chervil chervil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh thyme thyme | | Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook steaks steaks to to desired desired doneness doneness , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side for for medium medium ; ; an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read 130 130 degrees degrees F F ( ( 54 54 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer steaks steaks to to a a plate plate to to rest rest . . Place Place shallots shallots in in the the skillet skillet and and cook cook until until beginning beginning to to soften soften , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping the the browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Add Add broth broth and and anchovy anchovy ; ; cook cook until until thickened thickened to to sauce sauce consistency consistency , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from heat heat ; ; whisk whisk butter butter in in gradually gradually . . Stir Stir parsley parsley , , chervil chervil , , and and thyme thyme into into the the sauce sauce . . Puree Puree sauce sauce in in the the skillet skillet with with an an immersion immersion blender blender until until smooth smooth . . Cut Cut steaks steaks into into thin thin slices slices across across the the grain grain ; ; spoon spoon sauce sauce over over slices slices . 
2 slices slices bacon bacon 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 2 2 slices slices bread bread 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon whole whole berry berry cranberry cranberry sauce sauce , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 slices slices smoked smoked turkey turkey 1 1 slice slice provolone provolone cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown mustard mustard , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 slices slices cooked cooked ham ham | | Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain bacon bacon slices slices on on paper paper towels towels . . Break Break each each piece piece in in half half . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Whisk Whisk milk milk , , egg egg , , and and nutmeg nutmeg together together in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Dip Dip each each bread bread slice slice in in the the egg egg mixture mixture . . Cook Cook dipped dipped bread bread slices slices in in the the hot hot oil oil until until French French toast toast is is lightly lightly browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minute minute per per side side . . Transfer Transfer French French toast toast to to a a work work surface surface and and turn turn heat heat under under skillet skillet to to medium-low medium-low . . Spread Spread cranberry cranberry sauce sauce over over 1 1 French French toast toast piece piece and and top top with with turkey turkey , , provolone provolone cheese cheese , , and and bacon bacon . . Spread Spread mustard mustard on on the the other other French French toast toast piece piece and and top top with with ham ham ; ; lay lay on on top top of of bacon bacon layer layer , , ham-side ham-side down down , , creating creating a a sandwich sandwich . . Cook Cook sandwich sandwich in in the the skillet skillet until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and sandwich sandwich is is heated heated through through , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . 
4 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves Marinade Marinade : : 1/3 1/3 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 1 1 small small shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed Salad Salad : : 1 1 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lemon lemon zest zest 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , divided divided 4 4 cups cups trimmed trimmed arugula arugula 8 8 ounces ounces cherry cherry tomatoes tomatoes , , halved halved | | Pound Pound chicken chicken breasts breasts on on a a work work surface surface using using a a meat meat tenderizer tenderizer or or heavy heavy pan pan to to 1/4-inch 1/4-inch thick thick . . Whisk Whisk wine wine , , juice juice of of 1 1 lemon lemon , , shallot shallot , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil , , and and garlic garlic together together in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Add Add chicken chicken breasts breasts ; ; marinate marinate for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk juice juice of of 1 1 lemon lemon , , vinegar vinegar , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , and and lemon lemon zest zest together together in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper . . Add Add arugula arugula and and tomatoes tomatoes ; ; toss toss to to combine combine . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for high high heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate , , or or heat heat a a skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from marinade marinade ; ; season season with with remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper . . Cook Cook chicken chicken on on preheated preheated grill grill until until golden golden brown brown and and just just cooked cooked through through , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Plate Plate chicken chicken with with arugula arugula salad salad on on top top . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic , , divided divided salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup baby baby spinach spinach 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 sheets sheets frozen frozen puff puff pastry pastry ( ( such such as as Pepperidge Pepperidge Farm Farm ) ) , , thawed thawed 1 1 ( ( 1 1 1/2-pound 1/2-pound ) ) boned boned , , skinned skinned salmon salmon fillet fillet 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon smoked smoked paprika paprika , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten Sauce Sauce : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried dill dill | | Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until mushrooms mushrooms are are soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Transfer Transfer onion onion and and mushroom mushroom mixture mixture to to a a small small bowl bowl . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in the the same same skillet skillet . . Add Add remaining remaining 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add spinach spinach ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until wilted wilted , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Transfer Transfer to to another another bowl bowl . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a glass glass baking baking dish dish with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Dust Dust work work surface surface with with flour flour . . Lay Lay 1 1 puff puff pastry pastry sheet sheet out out on on work work surface surface . . Spread Spread onion onion and and mushroom mushroom mixture mixture evenly evenly across across pastry pastry , , leaving leaving a a 1/2-inch 1/2-inch border border . . Center Center salmon salmon on on top top . . Sprinkle Sprinkle paprika paprika over over salmon salmon and and top top with with wilted wilted spinach spinach . . Cover Cover with with second second puff puff pastry pastry sheet sheet . . Fold Fold over over and and crimp crimp edges edges to to seal seal . . Brush Brush top top with with beaten beaten egg egg . . Transfer Transfer to to baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until pastry pastry is is golden golden , , 40 40 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove and and let let stand stand for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Slice Slice into into 4 4 portions portions . . Whisk Whisk mayonnaise mayonnaise , , lemon lemon juice juice , , Dijon Dijon mustard mustard , , and and dill dill together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Spoon Spoon sauce sauce onto onto 4 4 plates plates and and place place a a piece piece of of salmon salmon on on each each . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon softened softened butter butter 2 2 ripe ripe pears pears - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , and and sliced sliced , , or or more more to to taste taste 3 3 eggs eggs 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons kirsch kirsch ( ( cherry cherry brandy brandy ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated lemon lemon zest zest 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cardamom cardamom 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter a a 10 10 1/2-inch 1/2-inch round round baking baking dish dish or or pie pie plate plate . . Fan Fan pear pear slices slices out out in in a a single single layer layer in in the the bottom bottom . . Beat Beat eggs eggs and and sugar sugar together together using using an an electric electric mixer mixer fitted fitted with with a a paddle paddle attachment attachment on on medium medium speed speed until until light light and and fluffy fluffy , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in heavy heavy cream cream , , flour flour , , kirsch kirsch , , lemon lemon zest zest , , vanilla vanilla extract extract , , cardamom cardamom , , and and salt salt on on low low speed speed until until batter batter is is smooth smooth . . Set Set batter batter aside aside to to rest rest , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour batter batter over over the the pears pears in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until set set and and golden golden brown brown , , 40 40 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . . Let Let cool cool briefly briefly , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve warm warm , , sprinkled sprinkled with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . 
Sauce : : 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano , , or or to to taste taste salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste Sandwich Sandwich : : 1 1 eggplant eggplant , , sliced sliced 1 1 zucchini zucchini , , sliced sliced 1 1 tomato tomato , , sliced sliced 1 1 red red onion onion , , sliced sliced 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 slices slices sourdough sourdough bread bread 4 4 slices slices mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat a a panini panini press press according according to to manufacturer manufacturer 's 's instructions instructions . . Grill Grill red red bell bell pepper pepper slices slices in in the the panini panini press press on on high high heat heat until until soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a blender blender . . Place Place chopped chopped tomato tomato and and garlic garlic in in the the blender blender . . Blend Blend with with bell bell pepper pepper until until a a smooth smooth sauce sauce forms forms , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Season Season sauce sauce with with oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper . . Grill Grill eggplant eggplant , , zucchini zucchini , , tomato tomato , , and and onion onion slices slices in in the the panini panini press press until until softened softened , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Drizzle Drizzle olive olive oil oil over over bread bread slices slices ; ; flip flip and and spread spread with with a a generous generous amount amount of of sauce sauce . . Place Place 2 2 slices slices bread bread , , oil-side oil-side down down , , on on the the panini panini press press ; ; add add 1 1 slice slice of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Top Top with with eggplant eggplant mixture mixture and and second second slice slice of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Place Place second second slice slice of of bread bread , , oil-side oil-side up up , , on on top top . . Grill Grill on on medium-high medium-high until until golden golden and and cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in chicken chicken pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup canned canned mushrooms mushrooms , , including including liquid liquid 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cut cut into into strips strips 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole peeled peeled tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or more more to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried marjoram marjoram 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cooked cooked rice rice | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Season Season chicken chicken with with paprika paprika , , black black pepper pepper , , and and salt salt to to taste taste . . Cook Cook chicken chicken in in hot hot oil oil until until browned browned on on all all sides sides , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a plate plate , , reserving reserving oil oil in in the the skillet skillet . . Drain Drain mushroom mushroom liquid liquid into into the the same same skillet skillet ; ; add add onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix chicken chicken , , tomatoes tomatoes , , white white wine wine , , 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , marjoram marjoram , , and and bay bay leaf leaf into into onion onion mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer over over low low heat heat until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove bay bay leaf leaf and and garlic garlic . . Serve Serve chicken chicken over over rice rice . 
6 cups cups water water 1 1 lemon lemon , , zested zested and and juiced juiced 4 4 Bosc Bosc pears pears - - cored cored , , peeled peeled , , stems stems left left on on 1 1 vanilla vanilla bean bean 3 3 cups cups sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup prepared prepared hot hot fudge fudge topping topping , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 cup cup vanilla vanilla ice ice cream cream , , or or as as needed needed | | Place Place water water in in a a heavy heavy pot pot . . Stir Stir in in zest zest and and juice juice of of 1 1 lemon lemon . . Place Place pears pears in in pot pot . . Split Split the the vanilla vanilla bean bean lengthwise lengthwise and and scrape scrape out out the the seeds seeds . . Add Add the the seeds seeds and and split split pods pods to to the the poaching poaching liquid liquid . . Pour Pour in in sugar sugar . . Bring Bring pot pot to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; stir stir gently gently to to dissolve dissolve sugar sugar with with minimal minimal jostling jostling of of the the pears pears . . Reduce Reduce heat heat so so pears pears continue continue cooking cooking over over a a steady steady , , gentle gentle simmer simmer . . Pears Pears need need to to stay stay submerged submerged , , so so place place a a small small plate plate over over them them in in the the pot pot to to keep keep them them under under the the liquid liquid . . Simmer Simmer until until pears pears are are just just tender tender , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . ( ( Remove Remove plate plate to to test test the the pears pears for for doneness doneness . . ) ) Remove Remove pot pot from from heat heat and and let let pears pears cool cool to to room room temperature temperature in in the the poaching poaching liquid liquid . . Transfer Transfer pears pears and and vanilla vanilla beans beans to to a a storage storage container container and and cover cover with with some some of of the the poaching poaching liquid liquid . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate until until pears pears are are thoroughly thoroughly chilled chilled , , several several hours hours or or overnight overnight . . Reserve Reserve all all of of the the poaching poaching liquid liquid ( ( see see footnote footnote ) ) . . Heat Heat hot hot fudge fudge sauce sauce in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until warm warm . . Dip Dip base base of of pear pear into into the the chocolate chocolate and and spoon spoon chocolate chocolate along along the the sides sides except except for for the the top top inch inch or or so so of of the the pear pear . . Place Place dipped dipped pears pears in in individual individual serving serving bowls bowls with with another another generous generous spoonful spoonful of of syrup syrup and and a a small small scoop scoop of of vanilla vanilla ice ice cream cream . 
Beef Marinade Marinade : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oyster oyster sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fish fish sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon hoisin hoisin sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds beef beef top top sirloin sirloin , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes Vinaigrette Vinaigrette : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup rice rice vinegar vinegar 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 red red onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced Dipping Dipping Sauce Sauce : : 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cooking cooking oil oil 2 2 bunches bunches watercress watercress , , torn torn 2 2 tomatoes tomatoes , , thinly thinly sliced sliced | | Whisk Whisk garlic garlic , , oyster oyster sauce sauce , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , fish fish sauce sauce , , sesame sesame oil oil , , soy soy sauce sauce , , and and hoisin hoisin sauce sauce together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add beef beef . . Marinate Marinate beef beef in in refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least 1 1 hour hour . . Whisk Whisk vinegar vinegar , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl until until vinaigrette vinaigrette is is smooth smooth ; ; add add onion onion . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 10 10 minutes minutes to to pickle pickle the the onion onion . . Whisk Whisk lime lime juice juice , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl until until dipping dipping sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Transfer Transfer dipping dipping sauce sauce to to ramekins ramekins . . Heat Heat cooking cooking oil oil in in a a wok wok or or large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat until until oil oil starts starts to to smoke smoke ; ; add add beef beef . . Cook Cook in in a a single single layer layer until until beef beef is is seared seared , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Cook Cook and and stir stir ( ( or or `` `` shake shake '' '' ) ) until until beef beef reaches reaches desired desired doneness doneness , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Spread Spread watercress watercress onto onto a a serving serving plate plate and and top top with with tomatoes tomatoes . . Drizzle Drizzle vinaigrette vinaigrette over over tomatoes tomatoes and and layer layer beef beef onto onto watercress watercress ; ; top top with with onion onion . . Serve Serve dipping dipping sauce sauce on on the the side side . 
4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 large large red red onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 large large sweet sweet onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 48 48 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 2 2 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme leaves leaves 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 thick thick slices slices French French or or Italian Italian bread bread 8 8 slices slices Gruyere Gruyere or or Swiss Swiss cheese cheese slices slices , , room room temperature temperature 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Asiago Asiago or or mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , room room temperature temperature 4 4 pinches pinches paprika paprika | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in salt salt , , red red onions onions and and sweet sweet onions onions . . Cook Cook 35 35 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until onions onions are are caramelized caramelized and and almost almost syrupy syrupy . . Mix Mix chicken chicken broth broth , , beef beef broth broth , , red red wine wine and and Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce into into pot pot . . Bundle Bundle the the parsley parsley , , thyme thyme , , and and bay bay leaf leaf with with twine twine and and place place in in pot pot . . Simmer Simmer over over medium medium heat heat for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Remove Remove and and discard discard the the herbs herbs . . Reduce Reduce the the heat heat to to low low , , mix mix in in vinegar vinegar and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cover Cover and and keep keep over over low low heat heat to to stay stay hot hot while while you you prepare prepare the the bread bread . . Preheat Preheat oven oven broiler broiler . . Arrange Arrange bread bread slices slices on on a a baking baking sheet sheet and and broil broil 3 3 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once , , until until well well toasted toasted on on both both sides sides . . Remove Remove from from heat heat ; ; do do not not turn turn off off broiler broiler . . Arrange Arrange 4 4 large large oven oven safe safe bowls bowls or or crocks crocks on on a a rimmed rimmed baking baking sheet sheet . . Fill Fill each each bowl bowl 2/3 2/3 full full with with hot hot soup soup . . Top Top each each bowl bowl with with 1 1 slice slice toasted toasted bread bread , , 2 2 slice slice Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese and and 1/4 1/4 of of the the Asiago Asiago or or mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle a a little little bit bit of of paprika paprika over over the the top top of of each each one one . . Broil Broil 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until bubbly bubbly and and golden golden brown brown . . As As it it softens softens , , the the cheese cheese will will cascade cascade over over the the sides sides of of the the crock crock and and form form a a beautifully beautifully melted melted crusty crusty seal seal . . Serve Serve immediately immediately ! 
2 ounces ounces dried dried wild wild mushrooms mushrooms ( ( such such as as porcini porcini or or shiitake shiitake ) ) 1 1 cup cup hot hot water water 6 6 slices slices bacon bacon 8 8 bone-in bone-in chicken chicken thighs thighs 1/4 1/4 cup cup quick-mixing quick-mixing flour flour ( ( such such as as Wondra Wondra ) ) , , or or as as needed needed salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch carrots carrots , , cut cut into into matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1/2 1/2 pound pound shallots shallots , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 750 750 milliliter milliliter ) ) bottle bottle Burgundy Burgundy red red wine wine , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , tied tied into into a a cheesecloth cheesecloth bag bag 5 5 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 3 3 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley , , or or as as desired desired | | Put Put dried dried mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour in in hot hot water water ; ; set set aside aside until until mushrooms mushrooms are are rehydrated rehydrated . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain bacon bacon slices slices on on paper paper towels towels , , reserving reserving bacon bacon grease grease in in the the skillet skillet . . Coat Coat chicken chicken thighs thighs with with flour flour and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Working Working in in batches batches , , cook cook chicken chicken in in the the bacon bacon grease grease over over medium medium heat heat until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove chicken chicken thighs thighs as as they they brown brown and and place place on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . Drain Drain dried dried mushrooms mushrooms through through cheesecloth cheesecloth , , reserving reserving liquid liquid . . Add Add drained drained mushrooms mushrooms , , carrots carrots , , fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , shallots shallots , , and and garlic garlic to to skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour 1 1 cup cup wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping the the browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the skillet skillet with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon until until liquid liquid is is reduced reduced , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Return Return chicken chicken to to the the skillet skillet and and mix mix in in remaining remaining wine wine , , chicken chicken broth broth , , herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , thyme thyme , , and and bay bay leaves leaves . . Liquid Liquid should should partially partially cover cover chicken chicken ; ; if if more more liquid liquid is is needed needed , , add add reserved reserved water water from from mushrooms mushrooms . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , at at least least 1 1 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove cover cover from from skillet skillet and and simmer simmer until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes more more . . Add Add more more quick-mixing quick-mixing flour flour to to sauce sauce to to thicken thicken , , if if desired desired . . Crumble Crumble bacon bacon over over chicken chicken and and vegetables vegetables and and garnish garnish with with parsley parsley . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 8 8 ounces ounces bacon bacon , , cut cut into into small small pieces pieces 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 750 750 milliliter milliliter ) ) bottle bottle Riesling Riesling wine wine 3 3 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken thighs thighs 10 10 ounces ounces shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package egg egg noodles noodles 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir bacon bacon until until crispy crispy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until onion onion is is softened softened , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix wine wine , , chicken chicken , , mushrooms mushrooms , , and and bay bay leaf leaf together together in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon mixture mixture to to a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon . . Once Once mixture mixture is is drained drained , , transfer transfer to to to to chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center and and sauce sauce is is slightly slightly thickened thickened , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook egg egg noodles noodles in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and transfer transfer to to a a bowl bowl ; ; add add butter butter and and mix mix until until coated coated . . Stir Stir cream cream into into chicken chicken mixture mixture until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Serve Serve chicken chicken mixture mixture over over buttered buttered egg egg noodles noodles . 
2 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white wine wine 1/3 1/3 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 8 8 cooked cooked skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , or or to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , and and half-and-half half-and-half in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil , , stirring stirring often often . . Remove Remove saucepan saucepan from from heat heat and and stir stir white white wine wine and and mayonnaise mayonnaise , , a a little little at at a a time time , , into into soup soup mixture mixture , , stirring stirring after after each each addition addition until until white white sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Arrange Arrange chicken chicken breasts breasts side-by-side side-by-side in in a a shallow shallow baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour white white sauce sauce over over chicken chicken and and top top with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until bubbling bubbling and and chicken chicken is is warmed warmed , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) chicken chicken , , cut cut into into 2 2 breasts breasts , , 2 2 wings wings , , 2 2 thighs thighs , , and and 2 2 drumsticks drumsticks 1/2 1/2 pound pound pearl pearl onions onions 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 1/2 1/2 pound pound carrots carrots , , sliced sliced diagonally diagonally 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 3 3 thick-cut thick-cut bacon bacon slices slices 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon thyme thyme 1 1 strip strip of of orange orange peel peel 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Fry Fry chicken chicken , , turning turning often often , , in in the the hot hot oil oil until until all all sides sides are are browned browned , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from skillet skillet . . Add Add onions onions to to skillet skillet ; ; cook cook and and stir stir over over medium medium heat heat until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add garlic garlic and and cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir flour flour into into onion onion mixture mixture until until blended blended and and dissolved dissolved . . Add Add wine wine , , stirring stirring constantly constantly until until evenly evenly mixed mixed . . Mix Mix carrots carrots , , mushrooms mushrooms , , chicken chicken stock stock , , bacon bacon , , parsley parsley , , tomato tomato paste paste , , thyme thyme , , orange orange peel peel , , bay bay leaf leaf , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper into into onion onion mixture mixture ; ; return return chicken chicken . . Bring Bring liquid liquid to to a a boil boil . . Transfer Transfer mixture mixture to to a a baking baking dish dish ; ; cover cover . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup milk milk 2 2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package button button mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 2 2 cups cups halved halved baby baby carrots carrots 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups red red wine wine 2 2 cups cups low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried rosemary rosemary salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Mix Mix flour flour , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper together together in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Pour Pour milk milk into into a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Dip Dip chicken chicken in in the the milk milk , , allowing allowing excess excess milk milk to to drip drip back back into into bowl bowl . . Dredge Dredge chicken chicken through through flour flour mixture mixture until until evenly evenly coated coated . . Cook Cook 1/2 1/2 of of the the chicken chicken in in the the hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from pot pot and and brown brown remaining remaining chicken chicken . . Return Return all all the the chicken chicken to to the the pot pot . . Mix Mix mushrooms mushrooms , , carrots carrots , , and and onion onion into into chicken chicken , , stirring stirring gently gently to to distribute distribute vegetables vegetables among among the the chicken chicken . . Pour Pour wine wine over over chicken chicken and and vegetables vegetables , , stirring stirring with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon to to scrape scrape up up any any browned browned bits bits from from bottom bottom of of pot pot . . Add Add enough enough chicken chicken broth broth to to nearly nearly cover cover the the chicken chicken and and vegetables vegetables . . Stir Stir Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , rosemary rosemary , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper into into broth broth mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cover Cover pot pot , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove lid lid and and turn turn heat heat up up to to medium-high medium-high ; ; boil boil , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until sauce sauce is is reduced reduced and and thickened thickened , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1/4 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon zest zest 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets swai swai fish fish , , halved halved 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley , , or or to to taste taste | | Whisk Whisk lemon lemon juice juice and and lemon lemon zest zest together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Mix Mix flour flour , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together in in a a resealable resealable gallon-size gallon-size plastic plastic bag bag . . Pat Pat swai swai fish fish fillets fillets dry dry with with a a paper paper towel towel ; ; lightly lightly season season 1 1 side side of of each each fillet fillet with with salt salt . . Place Place fillets fillets in in the the bag bag with with flour flour mixture mixture , , 1 1 at at a a time time , , and and shake shake to to coat coat . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; add add butter butter and and heat heat until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Place Place coated coated fish fish fillets fillets in in the the browned browned butter butter ; ; cook cook until until lightly lightly browned browned on on the the edges edges and and fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer fish fish to to a a plate plate , , reserving reserving butter butter in in the the skillet skillet . . Pour Pour lemon lemon juice juice mixture mixture into into skillet skillet with with reserved reserved butter butter ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until a a light light sauce sauce forms forms , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon sauce sauce over over fish fish and and garnish garnish with with parsley parsley . 
1/2 pound pound bacon bacon , , chopped chopped 6 6 chicken chicken thighs thighs , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 shallots shallots , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried rosemary rosemary 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups dry dry white white wine wine 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock , , or or more more as as needed needed salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Cook Cook and and stir stir bacon bacon in in a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon to to a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate , , reserving reserving bacon bacon grease grease in in skillet skillet . . Place Place chicken chicken thighs thighs in in the the bacon bacon grease grease and and cook cook until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Add Add shallots shallots , , thyme thyme , , rosemary rosemary , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Sprinkle Sprinkle bacon bacon over over chicken chicken mixture mixture and and pour pour in in wine wine ; ; simmer simmer until until wine wine is is slightly slightly reduced reduced , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms and and enough enough chicken chicken stock stock to to almost almost cover cover chicken chicken . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer for for 35 35 minutes minutes ; ; taste taste broth broth and and adjust adjust seasoning seasoning . . Simmer Simmer until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink near near the the bone bone , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; stir stir in in flour flour and and cook cook until until a a thick thick paste paste forms forms , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Whisk Whisk paste paste into into chicken chicken mixture mixture until until sauce sauce is is thickened thickened , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups olive olive oil oil 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 750 750 milliliter milliliter ) ) bottle bottle red red wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh tarragon tarragon 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh chervil chervil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh chives chives 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 4 4 bunches bunches green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans mushroom mushroom stems stems and and pieces pieces | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook chicken chicken in in hot hot oil oil until until browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Add Add red red wine wine , , tarragon tarragon , , chervil chervil , , chives chives , , and and parsley parsley to to chicken chicken ; ; mix mix well well . . Mix Mix green green onions onions and and mushrooms mushrooms into into chicken chicken mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until liquid liquid is is reduced reduced to to a a thick thick sauce sauce and and chicken chicken is is longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
3/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into quarters quarters 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package white white mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 6 6 carrots carrots , , peeled peeled and and sliced sliced 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white cooking cooking wine wine 6 6 slices slices cooked cooked bacon bacon , , crumbled crumbled 3/4 3/4 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1/4 1/4 cup cup minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried marjoram marjoram 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened | | Place Place flour flour in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Dredge Dredge chicken chicken through through flour flour until until evenly evenly coated coated , , shaking shaking excess excess flour flour back back into into bowl bowl . . Reserve Reserve remaining remaining flour flour . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; saute saute chicken chicken until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms , , carrots carrots , , cooking cooking wine wine , , bacon bacon , , chicken chicken broth broth , , garlic garlic , , shallot shallot , , parsley parsley , , thyme thyme , , marjoram marjoram , , bay bay leaf leaf , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover skillet skillet , , and and simmer simmer until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and carrots carrots are are soft soft , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Mix Mix butter butter and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons reserved reserved flour flour together together in in a a bowl bowl until until smooth smooth ; ; stir stir into into chicken chicken mixture mixture until until sauce sauce becomes becomes thick thick , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 bone-in bone-in chicken chicken thighs thighs with with skin skin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) package package portobello portobello mushroom mushroom caps caps 1 1 tomato tomato , , sliced sliced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white cooking cooking wine wine , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped sweet sweet onion onion | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a nonstick nonstick pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken thighs thighs , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook until until chicken chicken is is browned browned on on both both sides sides , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Mix Mix mushrooms mushrooms and and tomato tomato into into chicken chicken mixture mixture ; ; reduce reduce heat heat , , cover cover pot pot , , and and cook cook until until mushrooms mushrooms are are softened softened , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a baking baking dish dish . . Drain Drain accumulated accumulated juices juices from from chicken-mushroom-tomato chicken-mushroom-tomato mixture mixture into into a a separate separate saucepan saucepan and and transfer transfer chicken-mushroom-tomato chicken-mushroom-tomato mixture mixture to to the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour wine wine into into saucepan saucepan with with juices juices and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Add Add cream cream and and Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and sauce sauce is is smooth smooth , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir cornstarch cornstarch and and water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl until until cornstarch cornstarch is is dissolved dissolved ; ; mix mix into into cream cream sauce sauce until until smooth smooth and and thickened thickened . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken-vegetable chicken-vegetable mixture mixture ; ; top top with with onion onion . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
6 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 1/2 1/2 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2 2 cups cups warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornmeal cornmeal 1 1 egg egg white white 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine 2 2 cups cups flour flour , , yeast yeast and and salt salt . . Stir Stir in in 2 2 cups cups warm warm water water , , and and beat beat until until well well blended blended using using a a stand stand mixer mixer with with a a dough dough hook hook attachment attachment . . Using Using a a wooden wooden spoon spoon , , stir stir in in as as much much of of the the remaining remaining flour flour as as you you can can . . On On a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface , , knead knead in in enough enough flour flour to to make make a a stiff stiff dough dough that that is is smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Knead Knead for for about about 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes total total . . Shape Shape into into a a ball ball . . Place Place dough dough in in a a greased greased bowl bowl , , and and turn turn once once . . Cover Cover , , and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled . . Punch Punch dough dough down down , , and and divide divide in in half half . . Turn Turn out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface . . Cover Cover , , and and let let rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Roll Roll each each half half into into large large rectangle rectangle . . Roll Roll up up , , starting starting from from a a long long side side . . Moisten Moisten edge edge with with water water and and seal seal . . Taper Taper ends ends . . Grease Grease a a large large baking baking sheet sheet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with cornmeal cornmeal . . Place Place loaves loaves , , seam seam side side down down , , on on the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Lightly Lightly beat beat the the egg egg white white with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of water water , , and and brush brush on on . . Cover Cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth . . Let Let rise rise until until nearly nearly doubled doubled , , 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . With With a a very very sharp sharp knife knife , , make make 3 3 or or 4 4 diagonal diagonal cuts cuts about about 1/4 1/4 inch inch deep deep across across top top of of each each loaf loaf . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Brush Brush again again with with egg egg white white mixture mixture . . Bake Bake for for an an additional additional 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until bread bread tests tests done done . . If If necessary necessary , , cover cover loosely loosely with with foil foil to to prevent prevent over over browning browning . . Remove Remove from from baking baking sheet sheet , , and and cool cool on on a a wire wire rack rack . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 cups cups cubed cubed eggplant eggplant 2 2 cups cups cubed cubed zucchini zucchini 1 1 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced celery celery 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced red red bell bell pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 cup cup cider cider vinegar vinegar 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir eggplant eggplant , , zucchini zucchini , , onion onion , , celery celery , , and and red red bell bell pepper pepper until until tender tender , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Add Add cider cider vinegar vinegar , , tomato tomato paste paste , , garlic garlic , , curry curry powder powder , , salt salt , , and and oregano oregano ; ; simmer simmer until until liquid liquid is is slightly slightly reduced reduced , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
5 cups cups water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) fresh fresh salmon salmon fillet fillet 8 8 ounces ounces smoked smoked salmon salmon , , chopped chopped 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh tarragon tarragon , , or or to to taste taste 7 7 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper | | Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan and and add add salt salt . . Add Add salmon salmon fillet fillet , , reduce reduce to to a a simmer simmer , , and and cook cook until until just just cooked cooked through through , , 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer salmon salmon to to a a plate plate using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and let let cool cool 10 10 minutes minutes . . Flake Flake salmon salmon into into a a large large bowl bowl , , discarding discarding skin skin , , and and toss toss with with smoked smoked salmon salmon , , green green onion onion , , parsley parsley , , and and tarragon tarragon . . Whisk Whisk together together butter butter , , mayonnaise mayonnaise , , mustard mustard , , lemon lemon juice juice , , and and pepper pepper in in a a bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Add Add mayonnaise mayonnaise mixture mixture to to salmon salmon mixture mixture and and gently gently stir stir until until well well combined combined . . Cover Cover and and chill chill 3 3 hours hours . . Serve Serve with with toasted toasted baguette baguette slices slices or or crackers crackers . 
1 pound pound salted salted cod cod fish fish 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups whole whole milk milk 6 6 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 pound pound Yukon Yukon Gold Gold potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch chunks chunks 8 8 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , halved halved 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon zest zest 1/4 1/4 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 1 1 pinch pinch freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon creme creme fraiche fraiche ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a baking baking dish dish and and set set dish dish on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Rinse Rinse salt salt cod cod under under cold cold water water , , transfer transfer to to a a sealable sealable container container and and cover cover with with several several inches inches of of cold cold water water . . Soak Soak cod cod in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , changing changing the the water water every every few few hours hours , , for for 24 24 to to 36 36 hours hours . . Remove Remove cod cod from from water water and and cut cut into into evenly-sized evenly-sized pieces pieces . . Stir Stir cod cod , , milk milk , , thyme thyme , , bay bay leaves leaves , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper together together in in a a pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook until until fish fish begins begins to to flake flake ; ; 7 7 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and strain strain ; ; reserve reserve cooking cooking liquid liquid and and transfer transfer fish fish to to a a bowl bowl . . Place Place potatoes potatoes and and garlic garlic in in a a large large pot pot and and cover cover with with water water ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer until until tender tender , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Mash Mash cod cod , , a a few few splashes splashes reserved reserved cooking cooking liquid liquid , , and and lemon lemon zest zest together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Pour Pour in in remaining remaining reserved reserved cooking cooking liquid liquid and and potatoes potatoes ; ; mash mash until until desired desired consistency consistency is is reached reached . . Stir Stir in in 1/2 1/2 of of the the olive olive oil oil , , lemon lemon juice juice , , and and black black pepper pepper until until smooth smooth . . Add Add remaining remaining olive olive oil oil and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread creme creme fraiche fraiche over over the the top top and and score score the the top top with with a a spoon spoon to to create create a a crisscross crisscross surface surface . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until browned browned and and bubbling bubbling , , about about 20 20 minutes 
1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water 4 4 sheets sheets frozen frozen puff puff pastry pastry | | Beat Beat egg egg and and water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Cut Cut two two rounds rounds from from each each sheet sheet of of puff puff pastry pastry using using a a 3-inch 3-inch round round cutter cutter , , forming forming 8 8 circles circles . . Use Use a a 2 2 1/2-inch 1/2-inch round round cutter cutter to to cut cut through through 4 4 of of the the rounds rounds . . Place Place entire entire cut cut round round on on top top of of an an un-cut un-cut round round . . Brush Brush each each with with egg egg mixture mixture . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until puffed puffed and and golden golden , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . 
2 cups cups whole whole milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 4 4 large large eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon double-strength double-strength imitation imitation vanilla vanilla extract extract ( ( such such as as Goodman Goodman 's 's Route Route 66 66 ) ) 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon almond almond extract extract ( ( such such as as Watkins Watkins pure pure almond almond extract extract ) ) 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground allspice allspice 8 8 thick thick slices slices slightly slightly stale stale Texas Texas toast toast | | Mix Mix whole whole milk milk and and brown brown sugar sugar in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Beat Beat eggs eggs , , vanilla vanilla extract extract , , almond almond extract extract , , cinnamon cinnamon , , nutmeg nutmeg , , and and allspice allspice together together in in a a separate separate bowl bowl until until the the eggs eggs are are well well beaten beaten ; ; add add to to the the milk milk mixture mixture and and stir stir to to dissolve dissolve the the brown brown sugar sugar . . Heat Heat a a non-stick non-stick skillet skillet or or griddle griddle over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Set Set one one slice slice of of Texas Texas toast toast into into the the milk milk mixture mixture ; ; let let soak soak until until moistened moistened , , about about 10 10 seconds seconds per per side side . . Cook Cook the the dipped dipped toast toast in in the the preheated preheated skillet skillet until until bottom bottom is is golden golden brown brown , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes ; ; flip flip toast toast and and continue continue to to cook cook until until the the other other side side is is browned browned , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Repeat Repeat dipping dipping and and cooking cooking with with remaining remaining bread bread slices slices . 
2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , lightly lightly crushed crushed 1 1 cup cup Sauvignon Sauvignon Blanc Blanc wine wine 8 8 ounces ounces Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 8 8 ounces ounces Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Pour Pour enough enough water water into into a a large large pot pot to to be be a a few few inches inches deep deep . . Set Set a a large large stainless stainless steel steel bowl bowl atop atop the the pot pot to to make make a a double-boiler double-boiler . . Put Put garlic garlic cloves cloves into into the the bowl bowl and and turn turn heat heat below below double-boiler double-boiler to to medium medium ; ; cook cook until until the the garlic garlic is is fragrant fragrant and and warm warm , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour wine wine into into the the bowl bowl ; ; cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove garlic garlic from from wine wine and and discard discard . . Mix Mix Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , and and flour flour in in a a bowl bowl ; ; gradually gradually add add to to the the wine wine while while stirring stirring continually continually . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the mixture mixture until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and the the mixture mixture is is smooth smooth , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . 
Spice Rub Rub : : 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons kosher kosher salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried thyme thyme Potpourri Potpourri : : 12 12 cloves cloves garlic garlic 6 6 ( ( 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick ) ) slices slices fresh fresh ginger ginger 1 1 orange orange , , zest zest cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh thyme thyme , , plus plus more more for for garnish garnish 3 3 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 whole whole duck duck 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brandy brandy ( ( such such as as Armagnac Armagnac ) ) 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh chives chives 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated orange orange zest zest | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 250 250 degrees degrees F F ( ( 120 120 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a 9x13 9x13 baking baking dish dish with with 2 2 pieces pieces of of aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Stir Stir kosher kosher salt salt , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons black black pepper pepper , , and and dried dried thyme thyme together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Mix Mix garlic garlic , , ginger ginger , , orange orange zest zest strips strips , , fresh fresh thyme thyme , , and and bay bay leaves leaves together together in in another another bowl bowl . . Season Season duck duck all all over over , , inside inside and and out out , , with with about about 2/3 2/3 of of the the kosher kosher salt salt mixture mixture . . Fill Fill duck duck cavity cavity with with garlic garlic mixture mixture . . Place Place duck duck , , breast-side breast-side up up , , into into prepared prepared baking baking dish dish and and season season with with remaining remaining salt salt mixture mixture . . Wrap Wrap duck duck tightly tightly in in aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until meat meat pulls pulls away away from from the the bones bones , , 5 5 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Cool Cool duck duck with with its its accumulated accumulated juices juices , , wrapped wrapped in in aluminum aluminum foil foil , , to to room room temperature temperature . . Chill Chill in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 12 12 hours hours or or overnight overnight . . Pick Pick meat meat from from bones bones and and place place in in a a bowl bowl . . Spoon Spoon all all accumulated accumulated juices juices in in the the foil foil into into a a saucepan saucepan and and place place over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook until until hot hot throughout throughout ; ; strain strain through through a a fine-mesh fine-mesh strainer strainer into into a a bowl bowl . . Let Let fat fat and and stock stock separate separate ; ; transfer transfer fat fat from from the the top top to to another another bowl bowl . . Mash Mash duck duck meat meat , , 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons duck duck fat fat , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons duck duck stock stock , , butter butter , , brandy brandy , , parsley parsley , , chives chives , , Dijon Dijon mustard mustard , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , salt salt , , and and ground ground black black pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon ; ; transfer transfer to to a a sealable sealable container container , , press press down down , , and and drizzle drizzle a a little little duck duck fat fat over over the the top top . . Sprinkle Sprinkle thyme thyme leaves leaves , , black black pepper pepper , , and and orange orange zest zest over over the the top top . . Seal Seal the the container container and and refrigerate refrigerate for for the the flavors flavors to to blend blend , , 1 1 to to 3 3 days days . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 large large white white onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine 1/2 1/2 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt ( ( such such as as Diamond Diamond Crystal Crystal ) ) 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 sheet sheet puff puff pastry pastry 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil and and butter butter together together in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until the the butter butter is is melted melted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Saute Saute onion onion and and garlic garlic in in the the hot hot oil oil mixture mixture until until the the onion onion begins begins to to caramelize caramelize , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour white white wine wine over over the the onion onion mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer and and cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add beef beef broth broth and and thyme thyme ; ; cook cook until until the the liquid liquid reduces reduces in in volume volume by by half half . . Season Season the the mixture mixture with with kosher kosher salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Trim Trim puff puff pastry pastry and and fit fit into into a a tart tart pan pan . . Score Score a a rim rim along along the the edge edge of of the the pastry pastry . . Puncture Puncture the the center center of of the the pastry pastry with with a a fork fork . . Spread Spread the the onion onion mixture mixture over over the the pastry pastry ; ; top top with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese and and mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until the the crust crust is is golden golden brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
cooking spray spray 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/2 1/2 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) loaf loaf French French bread bread , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 3 3 Granny Granny Smith Smith apples apples - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , and and cut cut into into small small dice dice 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Prepare Prepare a a 7x11-inch 7x11-inch baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Beat Beat eggs eggs , , half-and-half half-and-half , , milk milk , , white white sugar sugar , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract together together in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; add add bread bread cubes cubes and and stir stir to to coat coat . . Let Let soak soak until until bread bread is is moist moist , , at at least least 10 10 minutes minutes . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir apples apples and and brown brown sugar sugar into into the the melted melted butter butter to to moisten moisten the the sugar sugar completely completely ; ; add add cinnamon cinnamon and and cook cook , , stirring stirring regularly regularly , , until until the the apples apples are are warmed warmed yet yet still still firm firm , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir apple apple mixture mixture into into the the bread bread mixture mixture ; ; pour pour into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden on on top top and and still still somewhat somewhat soft soft in in the the center center , , 35 35 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . 
6 bone-in bone-in , , skin-on skin-on chicken chicken thighs thighs 1 1 pinch pinch kosher kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces bacon bacon , , sliced sliced crosswise crosswise into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 10 10 large large button button mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 shallots shallots , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 6 6 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Season Season chicken chicken thighs thighs all all over over with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large , , oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to a a paper-towel paper-towel lined lined plate plate , , leaving leaving drippings drippings in in the the skillet skillet . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high and and place place chicken chicken , , skin-side skin-side down down , , into into skillet skillet . . Cook Cook in in hot hot skillet skillet until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a plate plate ; ; drain drain and and discard discard all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon drippings drippings from from the the skillet skillet . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-high medium-high ; ; saute saute mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , and and shallots shallots with with a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until golden golden and and caramelized caramelized , , 7 7 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir flour flour and and butter butter into into vegetable vegetable mixture mixture until until completely completely incorporated incorporated , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour red red wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Stir Stir bacon bacon and and thyme thyme into into red red wine wine mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer until until wine wine is is about about 1/3 1/3 reduced reduced , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour chicken chicken broth broth into into wine wine mixture mixture and and set set chicken chicken thighs thighs into into skillet skillet ; ; bring bring wine wine and and stock stock to to a a simmer simmer . . Cook Cook chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon pan pan juices juices over over the the chicken chicken and and continue continue cooking cooking until until no no longer longer pink pink at at the the bone bone and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter . . Place Place skillet skillet over over high high heat heat and and reduce reduce pan pan juices juices , , skimming skimming fat fat off off the the top top as as necessary necessary , , until until sauce sauce thickens thickens slightly slightly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; remove remove and and discard discard thyme thyme . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken chicken . 
1/2 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 cups cups sliced sliced onions onions 4 4 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry sherry sherry ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 slices slices French French bread bread 4 4 slices slices provolone provolone cheese cheese 2 2 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , diced diced 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Melt Melt butter butter with with olive olive oil oil in in an an 8 8 quart quart stock stock pot pot on on medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onions onions and and continually continually stir stir until until tender tender and and translucent translucent . . Do Do not not brown brown the the onions onions . . Add Add beef beef broth broth , , sherry sherry and and thyme thyme . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat the the oven oven broiler broiler . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into oven oven safe safe serving serving bowls bowls and and place place one one slice slice of of bread bread on on top top of of each each ( ( bread bread may may be be broken broken into into pieces pieces if if you you prefer prefer ) ) . . Layer Layer each each slice slice of of bread bread with with a a slice slice of of provolone provolone , , 1/2 1/2 slice slice diced diced Swiss Swiss and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Place Place bowls bowls on on cookie cookie sheet sheet and and broil broil in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese bubbles bubbles and and browns browns slightly slightly . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 shallot shallot , , diced diced 1 1 cup cup pinot pinot noir noir wine wine 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook shallot shallot in in hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour wine wine into into saucepan saucepan ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring regularly regularly , , until until reduced reduced in in volume volume by by half half , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir beef beef broth broth with with the the wine wine . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and cook cook at at a a simmer simmer until until slightly slightly reduced reduced , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir butter butter and and Italian Italian seasoning seasoning into into the the sauce sauce ; ; cook cook until until butter butter is is completely completely melted melted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 eggplant eggplant , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch cubes cubes salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 zucchini zucchini , , sliced sliced 1 1 large large onion onion , , sliced sliced into into rings rings 2 2 cups cups sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 2 2 large large tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Coat Coat bottom bottom and and sides sides of of a a 1 1 1/2 1/2 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in a a medium medium skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir garlic garlic until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Mix Mix in in parsley parsley and and eggplant eggplant . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until eggplant eggplant is is soft soft , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt to to taste taste . . Spread Spread eggplant eggplant mixture mixture evenly evenly across across bottom bottom of of prepared prepared casserole casserole dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with a a few few tablespoons tablespoons of of Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Spread Spread zucchini zucchini in in an an even even layer layer over over top top . . Lightly Lightly salt salt and and sprinkle sprinkle with with a a little little more more cheese cheese . . Continue Continue layering layering in in this this fashion fashion , , with with onion onion , , mushrooms mushrooms , , bell bell pepper pepper , , and and tomatoes tomatoes , , covering covering each each layer layer with with a a sprinkling sprinkling of of salt salt and and cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 45 45 minutes minutes . 
2 eggs eggs 1 1 cup cup milk milk 2/3 2/3 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable oil oil | | In In a a blender blender combine combine eggs eggs , , milk milk , , flour flour , , salt salt and and oil oil . . Process Process until until smooth smooth . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate 1 1 hour hour . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat and and brush brush with with oil oil . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of crepe crepe batter batter into into pan pan , , tilting tilting to to completely completely coat coat the the surface surface of of the the pan pan . . Cook Cook 2 2 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once , , until until golden golden . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining batter batter . 
9 ounces ounces bittersweet bittersweet chocolate chocolate , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dark dark rum rum ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Place Place the the chocolate chocolate into into a a medium medium bowl bowl . . Heat Heat the the cream cream in in a a small small sauce sauce pan pan over over medium medium heat heat . . Bring Bring just just to to a a boil boil , , watching watching very very carefully carefully because because if if it it boils boils for for a a few few seconds seconds , , it it will will boil boil out out of of the the pot pot . . When When the the cream cream has has come come to to a a boil boil , , pour pour over over the the chopped chopped chocolate chocolate , , and and whisk whisk until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in the the rum rum if if desired desired . . Allow Allow the the ganache ganache to to cool cool slightly slightly before before pouring pouring over over a a cake cake . . Start Start at at the the center center of of the the cake cake and and work work outward outward . . For For a a fluffy fluffy frosting frosting or or chocolate chocolate filling filling , , allow allow it it to to cool cool until until thick thick , , then then whip whip with with a a whisk whisk until until light light and and fluffy fluffy . 
1 clove clove garlic garlic , , halved halved 2 2 pounds pounds potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups freshly freshly grated grated Comte Comte cheese cheese salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Rub Rub the the cut cut sides sides of of the the garlic garlic over over the the bottom bottom and and sides sides of of an an 8-inch 8-inch baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread a a layer layer of of potato potato slices slices in in the the bottom bottom of of dish dish . . Pour Pour in in a a third third of of the the heavy heavy cream cream ; ; sprinkle sprinkle a a third third of of the the Comte Comte cheese cheese on on top top . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Repeat Repeat layers layers twice twice more more , , ending ending with with layers layers of of heavy heavy cream cream and and Comte Comte cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender and and cheese cheese is is golden golden brown brown , , about about 1 1 hour hour . 
4 eggs eggs , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | In In large large bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together eggs eggs , , milk milk , , melted melted butter butter , , flour flour sugar sugar and and salt salt until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat a a medium-sized medium-sized skillet skillet or or crepe crepe pan pan over over medium medium heat heat . . Grease Grease pan pan with with a a small small amount amount of of butter butter or or oil oil applied applied with with a a brush brush or or paper paper towel towel . . Using Using a a serving serving spoon spoon or or small small ladle ladle , , spoon spoon about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons crepe crepe batter batter into into hot hot pan pan , , tilting tilting the the pan pan so so that that bottom bottom surface surface is is evenly evenly coated coated . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes on on a a side side , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
3 egg egg yolks yolks 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 dash dash hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce ( ( e.g e.g . . Tabasco Tabasco ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter | | In In the the container container of of a a blender blender , , combine combine the the egg egg yolks yolks , , mustard mustard , , lemon lemon juice juice and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Cover Cover , , and and blend blend for for about about 5 5 seconds seconds . . Place Place the the butter butter in in a a glass glass measuring measuring cup cup . . Heat Heat butter butter in in the the microwave microwave for for about about 1 1 minute minute , , or or until until completely completely melted melted and and hot hot . . Set Set the the blender blender on on high high speed speed , , and and pour pour the the butter butter into into the the egg egg yolk yolk mixture mixture in in a a thin thin stream stream . . It It should should thicken thicken almost almost immediately immediately . . Keep Keep the the sauce sauce warm warm until until serving serving by by placing placing the the blender blender container container in in a a pan pan of of hot hot tap tap water water . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups milk milk 3 3 egg egg yolks yolks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons melted melted butter butter | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the milk milk , , egg egg yolks yolks and and vanilla vanilla . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , sugar sugar , , salt salt and and melted melted butter butter until until well well blended blended . . Heat Heat a a crepe crepe pan pan over over medium medium heat heat until until hot hot . . Coat Coat with with vegetable vegetable oil oil or or cooking cooking spray spray . . Pour Pour about about 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of batter batter into into the the pan pan and and tip tip to to spread spread the the batter batter to to the the edges edges . . When When bubbles bubbles form form on on the the top top and and the the edges edges are are dry dry , , flip flip over over and and cook cook until until lightly lightly browned browned on on the the other other side side and and edges edges are are golden golden . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining batter batter . . Fill Fill crepes crepes with with your your favorite favorite fruit fruit , , cream cream , , caramel caramel or or even even ice ice cream cream or or cheese cheese to to serve serve . 
3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup shortening shortening 1 1 egg egg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | In In a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl , , combine combine flour flour , , salt salt , , and and sugar sugar . . Mix Mix well well , , then then cut cut in in shortening shortening until until mixture mixture resembles resembles coarse coarse meal meal . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine egg egg , , vinegar vinegar , , and and 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons of of water water . . Whisk Whisk together together , , then then add add gradually gradually to to flour flour mixture mixture , , stirring stirring with with a a fork fork . . Mix Mix until until dough dough forms forms a a ball ball . . Add Add one one more more tablespoon tablespoon of of water water if if necessary necessary . . Allow Allow dough dough to to rest rest in in refrigerator refrigerator 10 10 minutes minutes before before rolling rolling out out . 
1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 eggs eggs 2 2 cups cups milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted | | Sift Sift together together flour flour , , sugar sugar and and salt salt ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , beat beat eggs eggs and and milk milk together together with with an an electric electric mixer mixer . . Beat Beat in in flour flour mixture mixture until until smooth smooth ; ; stir stir in in melted melted butter butter . . Heat Heat a a lightly lightly oiled oiled griddle griddle or or frying frying pan pan over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Pour Pour or or scoop scoop the the batter batter onto onto the the griddle griddle , , using using approximately approximately 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons for for each each crepe crepe . . Tip Tip and and rotate rotate pan pan to to spread spread batter batter as as thinly thinly as as possible possible . . Brown Brown on on both both sides sides and and serve serve hot hot . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds cubed cubed beef beef stew stew meat meat 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans Italian-style Italian-style diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth 4 4 carrots carrots , , chopped chopped 2 2 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and chopped chopped 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Dijon-style Dijon-style prepared prepared mustard mustard salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Combine Combine meat meat and and flour flour in in a a large large plastic plastic food food storage storage bag bag and and toss toss to to coat coat evenly evenly . . In In a a 6 6 quart quart saucepan saucepan brown brown meat meat in in hot hot vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , if if desired desired . . Add Add diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , beef beef broth broth , , carrots carrots , , potatoes potatoes and and thyme thyme . . Bring Bring to to boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover ; ; and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 hour hour or or until until beef beef is is tender tender . . Blend Blend in in mustard mustard and and serve serve . 
1 recipe recipe pastry pastry for for a a 9 9 inch inch single single crust crust pie pie 12 12 slices slices bacon bacon 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1/3 1/3 cup cup minced minced onion onion 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 2 2 cups cups light light cream cream 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large skillet skillet , , and and fry fry over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until crisp crisp . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels , , then then chop chop coarsely coarsely . . Sprinkle Sprinkle bacon bacon , , cheese cheese and and onion onion into into pastry pastry shell shell . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together eggs eggs , , cream cream , , salt salt , , sugar sugar and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into pastry pastry shell shell . . Bake Bake 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , and and bake bake an an additional additional 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until a a knife knife inserted inserted 1 1 inch inch from from edge edge comes comes out out clean clean . . Allow Allow quiche quiche to to sit sit 10 10 minutes minutes before before cutting cutting into into wedges wedges . 
8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts 8 8 slices slices cooked cooked ham ham 4 4 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch pieces pieces salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/4 1/4 cup cup melted melted butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup cornflakes cornflakes cereal cereal crumbs crumbs 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon juice juice | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place each each chicken chicken breast breast half half between between sheets sheets of of plastic plastic wrap wrap and and pound pound with with a a meat meat mallet mallet to to about about 1/8 1/8 inch inch thickness thickness . . Place Place a a finger finger of of cheese cheese on on each each ham ham slice slice and and sprinkle sprinkle lightly lightly with with thyme thyme and and salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Roll Roll up up seasoned seasoned ham ham and and cheese cheese 'jellyroll-style 'jellyroll-style ' ' , , then then roll roll each each chicken chicken breast breast with with ham ham and and cheese cheese inside inside . . Tuck Tuck in in ends ends and and fasten fasten with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Place Place melted melted butter butter in in a a small small bowl bowl and and place place cereal cereal crumbs crumbs in in a a shallow shallow dish dish or or bowl bowl . . Dip Dip each each chicken chicken roll roll in in butter butter or or margarine margarine , , then then roll roll in in crumbs crumbs , , turning turning to to coat coat thoroughly thoroughly . . Place Place coated coated rolls rolls in in a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake at at 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 40 40 minutes minutes or or until until chicken chicken is is golden golden brown brown and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Serve Serve with with cordon cordon bleu bleu sauce sauce , , if if desired desired . . To To Make Make Cordon Cordon Bleu Bleu Sauce Sauce : : In In a a small small saucepan saucepan mix mix together together the the soup soup , , sour sour cream cream and and lemon lemon juice juice . . Heat Heat over over low low heat heat , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , and and serve serve hot hot over over chicken chicken rolls rolls . . Makes Makes about about 2 2 cups cups ; ; 8 8 servings servings of of 1/4 1/4 cup cup each each . 
6 egg egg yolks yolks 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat egg egg yolks yolks , , 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar and and vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl until until thick thick and and creamy creamy . . Pour Pour cream cream into into a a saucepan saucepan and and stir stir over over low low heat heat until until it it almost almost comes comes to to boil boil . . Remove Remove the the cream cream from from heat heat immediately immediately . . Stir Stir cream cream into into the the egg egg yolk yolk mixture mixture ; ; beat beat until until combined combined . . Pour Pour cream cream mixture mixture into into the the top top pan pan of of a a double double boiler boiler . . Stir Stir over over simmering simmering water water until until mixture mixture lightly lightly coats coats the the back back of of a a spoon spoon , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove mixture mixture from from heat heat immediately immediately and and pour pour into into a a shallow shallow heat-proof heat-proof dish dish . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for at at least least 1 1 hour hour or or overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to broil broil . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar and and brown brown sugar sugar . . Sift Sift this this mixture mixture evenly evenly over over custard custard . . Place Place dish dish under under broiler broiler until until sugar sugar melts melts , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Watch Watch carefully carefully so so as as not not to to burn burn . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and allow allow to to cool cool . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until custard custard is is set set again again . 
2 cups cups milk milk 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 egg egg 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornstarch cornstarch 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | In In a a heavy heavy saucepan saucepan , , stir stir together together the the milk milk and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of sugar sugar . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium medium heat heat . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the egg egg yolks yolks and and egg egg . . Stir Stir together together the the remaining remaining sugar sugar and and cornstarch cornstarch ; ; then then stir stir them them into into the the egg egg until until smooth smooth . . When When the the milk milk comes comes to to a a boil boil , , drizzle drizzle it it into into the the bowl bowl in in a a thin thin stream stream while while mixing mixing so so that that you you do do not not cook cook the the eggs eggs . . Return Return the the mixture mixture to to the the saucepan saucepan , , and and slowly slowly bring bring to to a a boil boil , , stirring stirring constantly constantly so so the the eggs eggs don don ' ' t t curdle curdle or or scorch scorch on on the the bottom bottom . . When When the the mixture mixture comes comes to to a a boil boil and and thickens thickens , , remove remove from from the the heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the butter butter and and vanilla vanilla , , mixing mixing until until the the butter butter is is completely completely blended blended in in . . Pour Pour into into a a heat-proof heat-proof container container and and place place a a piece piece of of plastic plastic wrap wrap directly directly on on the the surface surface to to prevent prevent a a skin skin from from forming forming . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until chilled chilled before before using using . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups unsalted unsalted butter butter , , at at room room temperature temperature 4 4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar 2 2 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages active active dry dry yeast yeast 1/4 1/4 cup cup lukewarm lukewarm water water 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Sprinkle Sprinkle 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of flour flour over over the the butter butter and and mix mix it it together together with with your your hands hands in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl or or on on a a work work surface surface . . Transfer Transfer the the butter butter to to a a length length of of foil foil or or parchment parchment paper paper and and pat pat it it into into a a 6 6 inch inch square square . . Fold Fold up up the the foil foil to to make make a a packet packet and and refrigerate refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Combine Combine 2 2 cups cups of of the the flour flour with with the the salt salt and and sugar sugar in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Dissolve Dissolve the the yeast yeast in in the the lukewarm lukewarm water water ( ( 100 100 degrees degrees F/38 F/38 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and set set aside aside until until frothy frothy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , warm warm the the milk milk and and the the heavy heavy cream cream to to lukewarm lukewarm . . Add Add the the yeast yeast , , milk milk , , and and cream cream to to the the flour flour mixture mixture and and stir stir well well . . The The dough dough will will have have a a batter-like batter-like consistency consistency . . Stir Stir in in the the remaining remaining 2 2 cups cups of of flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup at at a a time time to to form form a a soft soft dough dough . . It It should should no no longer longer be be sticky sticky . . Turn Turn the the dough dough onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead until until smooth smooth , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the dough dough in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl and and cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 1 1 hour hour . . To To begin begin the the rolling rolling and and folding folding process process , , both both the the butter butter and and the the dough dough should should be be at at a a cool cool room room temperature temperature . . [ [ See See Cook Cook 's 's Note Note . . ] ] Place Place the the dough dough on on a a floured floured surface surface and and roll roll it it into into a a 10-inch 10-inch square square . . Set Set the the block block of of butter butter diagonally diagonally on on the the square square dough dough . . Bring Bring each each point point of of dough dough to to the the center center of of the the butter butter square square ; ; the the edges edges of of the the dough dough should should overlap overlap . . Pinch Pinch the the edges edges together together to to seal seal . . Starting Starting from from the the center center of of the the square square and and working working outward outward , , use use a a rolling rolling pin pin to to roll roll the the dough dough out out into into a a rectangle rectangle . . The The butter butter should should be be pliable pliable enough enough to to roll roll smoothly smoothly with with the the dough dough ; ; if if it it 's 's too too soft soft and and starts starts to to ooze ooze out out the the corners corners , , wrap wrap the the dough dough in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate before before proceeding proceeding . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a long long rectangle rectangle , , approximately approximately 8 8 by by 18 18 inches inches . . Fold Fold the the length length of of dough dough into into thirds thirds , , like like a a business business letter letter . . If If the the dough dough is is still still cool cool , , you you can can continue continue with with another another fold fold . . Otherwise Otherwise , , wrap wrap it it in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 45 45 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and let let it it warm warm up up for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes before before you you begin begin rolling rolling it it out out again again . . Position Position the the dough dough so so that that the the open open ends ends are are at at 12 12 and and 6 6 o'clock o'clock . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a rectangle rectangle , , working working from from the the center center of of the the dough dough and and pressing pressing outwards outwards . . Reposition Reposition the the dough dough as as necessary necessary to to fit fit your your work work space space . . You You should should have have a a long long rectangle rectangle for for the the `` `` book book fold fold . . '' '' Fold Fold both both ends ends of of the the dough dough into into the the middle middle ; ; the the ends ends do do n't n't have have to to be be touching touching , , but but should should be be close close . . Fold Fold the the already-folded already-folded dough dough in in half half ; ; it it will will look look like like a a thick thick book book . . Wrap Wrap the the dough dough well well with with plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Remove Remove the the dough dough from from the the refrigerator refrigerator and and let let it it rest rest at at room room temperature temperature for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Roll Roll the the dough dough into into a a rectangle rectangle again again and and fold fold it it into into thirds thirds , , like like a a business business letter letter . . Wrap Wrap it it in in plastic plastic and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4-6 4-6 hours hours or or overnight overnight . . To To shape shape the the croissants croissants , , roll roll the the dough dough into into a a 10- 10- by by 38-inch 38-inch rectangle rectangle on on a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface . . It It should should be be about about 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick . . Use Use a a pizza pizza wheel wheel or or sharp sharp paring paring knife knife to to trim trim the the edges edges of of the the dough dough . . Divide Divide the the rectangle rectangle in in half half so so that that you you have have two two 5-inch 5-inch wide wide strips strips of of dough dough . . Use Use a a clean clean yardstick yardstick to to mark mark each each strip strip into into triangles triangles that that are are 5 5 inches inches wide wide at at their their bases bases . . Cut Cut the the triangles triangles and and place place them them onto onto parchment-lined parchment-lined baking baking sheets sheets . . Chill Chill for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , if if necessary necessary . . Starting Starting at at the the base base of of the the triangle triangle , , roll roll the the dough dough up up into into a a log log ; ; the the tip tip of of the the triangle triangle should should be be under under the the body body of of the the croissant croissant to to prevent prevent it it from from unraveling unraveling . . Bend Bend in in the the corners corners to to form form the the traditional traditional crescent crescent shape shape . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining dough dough . . Arrange Arrange the the croissants croissants on on the the parchment-lined parchment-lined baking baking sheets sheets and and allow allow to to rise rise until until doubled doubled in in size size , , about about 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the egg egg with with the the tablespoon tablespoon of of water water to to make make the the egg egg wash wash . . Brush Brush the the croissants croissants with with egg egg wash wash and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until deep deep brown brown , , 22 22 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool on on a a rack rack before before serving serving . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1 1 cup cup milk milk 4 4 ounces ounces sliced sliced ham ham 4 4 ounces ounces sliced sliced Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package herbed herbed dry dry bread bread stuffing stuffing mix mix 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted | | Mix Mix together together the the cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup and and milk milk in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Pour Pour enough enough of of the the soup soup into into a a slow slow cooker cooker to to cover cover the the bottom bottom . . Layer Layer chicken chicken breasts breasts over over the the sauce sauce . . Cover Cover with with slices slices of of ham ham and and then then Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Pour Pour the the remaining remaining soup soup over over the the layers layers , , stirring stirring a a little little to to distribute distribute between between layers layers . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the stuffing stuffing on on top top , , and and drizzle drizzle butter butter over over stuffing stuffing . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on Low Low for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours , , or or 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours on on High High . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 3 3 onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red wine wine 2 2 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans condensed condensed beef beef broth broth 1 1 French French baguette baguette 8 8 ounces ounces sliced sliced Swiss Swiss cheese cheese | | Melt Melt butter butter or or margarine margarine in in a a 4 4 quart quart saucepan saucepan . . Stir Stir in in sugar sugar . . Cook Cook onions onions over over medium medium heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . . Stir Stir in in flour flour until until well well blended blended with with the the onions onions and and pan pan juices juices . . Add Add water water , , wine wine , , and and beef beef broth broth ; ; heat heat to to boiling boiling . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low . . Cover Cover soup soup , , and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut four four 1 1 inch inch thick thick slices slices of of bread bread from from the the loaf loaf . . Toast Toast the the bread bread slices slices at at 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) just just until until browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Reserve Reserve the the remaining remaining bread bread to to serve serve with with the the soup soup . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into four four 12 12 ounce ounce , , oven-safe oven-safe bowls bowls . . Place Place 1 1 slice slice toasted toasted bread bread on on top top of of the the soup soup in in each each bowl bowl . . Fold Fold Swiss Swiss cheese cheese slices slices , , and and fit fit onto onto toasted toasted bread bread slices slices . . Place Place soup soup bowls bowls on on a a cookie cookie sheet sheet for for easier easier handling handling . . Bake Bake at at 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or just just until until cheese cheese is is melted 
6 bone-in bone-in , , skin-on skin-on chicken chicken thighs thighs 1 1 pinch pinch kosher kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces bacon bacon , , sliced sliced crosswise crosswise into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 10 10 large large button button mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 shallots shallots , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 6 6 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Season Season chicken chicken thighs thighs all all over over with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large , , oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to a a paper-towel paper-towel lined lined plate plate , , leaving leaving drippings drippings in in the the skillet skillet . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high and and place place chicken chicken , , skin-side skin-side down down , , into into skillet skillet . . Cook Cook in in hot hot skillet skillet until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a plate plate ; ; drain drain and and discard discard all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon drippings drippings from from the the skillet skillet . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-high medium-high ; ; saute saute mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , and and shallots shallots with with a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until golden golden and and caramelized caramelized , , 7 7 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir flour flour and and butter butter into into vegetable vegetable mixture mixture until until completely completely incorporated incorporated , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour red red wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Stir Stir bacon bacon and and thyme thyme into into red red wine wine mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer until until wine wine is is about about 1/3 1/3 reduced reduced , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour chicken chicken broth broth into into wine wine mixture mixture and and set set chicken chicken thighs thighs into into skillet skillet ; ; bring bring wine wine and and stock stock to to a a simmer simmer . . Cook Cook chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon pan pan juices juices over over the the chicken chicken and and continue continue cooking cooking until until no no longer longer pink pink at at the the bone bone and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter . . Place Place skillet skillet over over high high heat heat and and reduce reduce pan pan juices juices , , skimming skimming fat fat off off the the top top as as necessary necessary , , until until sauce sauce thickens thickens slightly slightly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; remove remove and and discard discard thyme thyme . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken chicken . 
1/2 cup cup butter butter 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) package package instant instant vanilla vanilla pudding pudding mix mix 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups cold cold milk milk 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) squares squares semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons hot hot water water | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a cookie cookie sheet sheet . . In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter and and 1 1 cup cup water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , stirring stirring until until butter butter melts melts completely completely . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and add add flour flour and and salt salt . . Stir Stir vigorously vigorously until until mixture mixture leaves leaves the the sides sides of of the the pan pan and and begins begins to to form form a a stiff stiff ball ball . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Add Add eggs eggs , , one one at at a a time time , , beating beating well well to to incorporate incorporate completely completely after after each each addition addition . . With With a a spoon spoon or or a a pastry pastry bag bag fitted fitted with with a a No No . . 10 10 , , or or larger larger , , tip tip , , spoon spoon or or pipe pipe dough dough onto onto cookie cookie sheet sheet in in 1 1 1/2 1/2 x x 4 4 inch inch strips strips . . Bake Bake 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and bake bake 20 20 minutes minutes more more , , until until hollow hollow sounding sounding when when lightly lightly tapped tapped on on the the bottom bottom . . Cool Cool completely completely on on a a wire wire rack rack . . For For the the filling filling , , combine combine pudding pudding mix mix and and milk milk in in medium medium bowl bowl according according to to package package directions directions . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , beat beat the the cream cream with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until soft soft peaks peaks form form . . Beat Beat in in 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla . . Fold Fold whipped whipped cream cream into into pudding pudding . . Cut Cut tops tops off off of of cooled cooled pastry pastry shells shells with with a a sharp sharp knife knife . . Fill Fill shells shells with with pudding pudding mixture mixture and and replace replace tops tops . . For For the the icing icing , , melt melt the the chocolate chocolate and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat . . Stir Stir in in 1 1 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla . . Stir Stir in in hot hot water water , , one one tablespoon tablespoon at at a a time time , , until until icing icing is is smooth smooth and and has has reached reached desired desired consistency consistency . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , cool cool slightly slightly , , and and drizzle drizzle over over filled filled eclairs eclairs . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until serving serving . 
2 eggs eggs 2 2 slices slices ham ham , , chopped chopped ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped onion onion ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh tomato tomato ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chunky chunky salsa salsa ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Crack Crack the the eggs eggs into into a a large large resealable resealable freezer freezer bag bag . . Press Press out out most most of of the the air air , , and and seal seal . . Shake Shake or or squeeze squeeze to to beat beat the the eggs eggs . . Open Open the the bag bag , , and and add add the the ham ham , , cheese cheese , , onion onion , , green green pepper pepper , , tomato tomato , , salsa salsa , , and and mushrooms mushrooms . . Squeeze Squeeze out out as as much much of of the the air air as as you you can can , , and and seal seal the the bag bag . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Place Place up up to to 8 8 bags bags at at a a time time into into the the boiling boiling water water . . Cook Cook for for exactly exactly 13 13 minutes minutes . . Open Open the the bag bag , , and and let let the the omelet omelet roll roll out out onto onto a a plate plate . . The The omelet omelet should should roll roll out out easily easily . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) wheel wheel Brie Brie cheese cheese 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons apricot apricot preserves preserves 1/2 1/2 ( ( 17.5 17.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen puff puff pastry pastry , , thawed thawed 1 1 egg egg white white | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Slice Slice one one wheel wheel of of Brie Brie cheese cheese in in half half so so you you have have 2 2 circles circles of of cheese cheese . . Spread Spread apricot apricot or or peach peach preserves preserves on on ( ( the the cut cut side side ) ) half half of of one one circle circle of of brie brie . . Make Make sandwich sandwich out out of of the the two two halves halves of of Brie Brie , , so so that that the the preserves preserves are are in in the the center center of of both both halves halves . . Wrap Wrap the the entire entire wheel wheel of of Brie Brie with with one one sheet sheet of of puffed puffed pastry pastry and and flip flip the the entire entire concoction concoction onto onto the the prepared prepared cooking cooking sheet sheet so so the the seam seam is is on on bottom bottom . . Brush Brush the the puffed puffed pastry pastry with with the the egg egg white white . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the pastry pastry in in golden golden brown brown . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
4 egg egg whites whites 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 200 200 degrees degrees F F ( ( 95 95 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter and and flour flour a a baking baking sheet sheet . . In In a a glass glass or or metal metal bowl bowl , , whip whip egg egg whites whites until until foamy foamy using using an an electric electric mixer mixer . . Sprinkle Sprinkle in in sugar sugar a a little little at at a a time time , , while while continuing continuing to to whip whip at at medium medium speed speed . . When When the the mixture mixture becomes becomes stiff stiff and and shiny shiny like like satin satin , , stop stop mixing mixing , , and and transfer transfer the the mixture mixture to to a a large large pastry pastry bag bag . . Pipe Pipe the the meringue meringue out out onto onto the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet using using a a large large round round tip tip or or star star tip tip . . Place Place the the meringues meringues in in the the oven oven and and place place a a wooden wooden spoon spoon handle handle in in the the door door to to keep keep it it from from closing closing all all the the way way . . Bake Bake for for 3 3 hours hours , , or or until until the the meringues meringues are are dry dry , , and and can can easily easily be be removed removed from from the the pan pan . . Allow Allow cookies cookies to to cool cool completely completely before before storing storing in in an an airtight airtight container container at at room room temperature temperature . 
50 fresh fresh mussels mussels , , scrubbed scrubbed and and debearded debearded 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons margarine margarine or or butter butter 3 3 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh parsley parsley , , chopped chopped 3 3 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Place Place mussels mussels in in a a large large bowl bowl with with cold cold water water to to cover cover . . Let Let them them soak soak for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes to to remove remove any any dirt dirt or or sand sand . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large stockpot stockpot over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic , , and and saute saute for for one one minute minute , , but but do do not not brown brown . . Add Add the the chopped chopped green green onion onion and and tomatoes tomatoes , , and and cook cook until until almost almost tender tender . . Pour Pour in in the the white white wine wine , , and and stir stir in in the the parsley parsley and and butter butter . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and allow allow to to boil boil until until the the liquid liquid has has reduced reduced by by half half , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Add Add the the mussels mussels to to the the pot pot , , cover cover and and allow allow to to cook cook until until the the shells shells are are opened opened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer the the mussels mussels and and sauce sauce to to a a large large serving serving bowl bowl , , discarding discarding any any unopened unopened shells shells . . Bon Bon appetit appetit ! 
1 ( ( 18.25 18.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package chocolate chocolate cake cake mix mix 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 2 2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) squares squares unsweetened unsweetened chocolate chocolate , , melted melted 1/2 1/2 cup cup cold cold water water 1 1 ( ( 3.9 3.9 ounce ounce ) ) package package instant instant chocolate chocolate pudding pudding mix mix 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream , , whipped whipped | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Prepare Prepare and and bake bake cake cake mix mix according according to to package package directions directions for for two two 9-inch 9-inch layers layers . . Cool Cool and and remove remove from from pans pans . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk and and melted melted chocolate chocolate . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in the the water water , , then then instant instant pudding pudding until until smooth smooth . . Chill Chill for for at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the chocolate chocolate mixture mixture from from the the refrigerator refrigerator , , and and stir stir to to loosen loosen . . Fold Fold in in whipped whipped cream cream and and return return to to the the refrigerator refrigerator for for at at least least another another hour hour . . Place Place one one layer layer of of cake cake onto onto a a serving serving plate plate . . Top Top with with 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of the the mousse mousse , , then then cover cover with with the the remaining remaining cake cake layer layer . . Frost Frost with with the the remaining remaining mousse mousse , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until serving serving . . Garnish Garnish with with fresh fresh fruit fruit or or chocolate chocolate shavings shavings . 
2 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages active active dry dry yeast yeast 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F F ) ) 2 2 cups cups water water 6 6 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornmeal cornmeal 1 1 egg egg white white , , beaten beaten 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sesame sesame seeds seeds | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , dissolve dissolve yeast yeast in in warm warm water water . . Let Let stand stand until until creamy creamy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the yeast yeast mixture mixture with with 2 2 cups cups water water , , 3 3 cups cups flour flour , , salt salt , , sugar sugar and and vegetable vegetable oil oil ; ; stir stir well well to to combine combine . . Stir Stir in in the the remaining remaining flour flour , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup at at a a time time , , beating beating well well after after each each addition addition . . When When the the dough dough has has pulled pulled together together , , turn turn it it out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface and and knead knead until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Lightly Lightly oil oil a a large large bowl bowl , , place place the the dough dough in in the the bowl bowl and and turn turn to to coat coat with with oil oil . . Cover Cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in volume volume , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Divide Divide dough dough half half . . Roll Roll each each half half into into a a 9 9 x x 12 12 rectangle rectangle and and roll roll up up jelly jelly roll roll style style , , starting starting at at long long edge edge . . Seal Seal edges edges and and place place seam seam side side down down on on a a large large baking baking sheet sheet that that has has been been sprinkled sprinkled with with cornmeal cornmeal . . Use Use a a sharp sharp knife knife to to slash slash each each loaf loaf diagonally diagonally 3 3 times times . . Brush Brush with with beaten beaten egg egg white white and and sprinkle sprinkle with with sesame sesame seeds seeds . . Cover Cover and and allow allow to to rise rise 30 30 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , preheat preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . 
1/2 cup cup semi-sweet semi-sweet chocolate chocolate chips chips 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 5 5 egg egg yolks yolks 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the chocolate chocolate chips chips into into each each of of four four 6 6 ounce ounce ramekins ramekins . . Place Place them them in in the the microwave microwave , , and and heat heat on on full full power power for for 30 30 second second intervals intervals . . Stir Stir , , and and continue continue heating heating until until chocolate chocolate has has melted melted . . Spread Spread to to cover cover the the sides sides and and bottom bottom of of each each ramekin ramekin . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a saucepan saucepan , , whisk whisk together together the the cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , and and salt salt . . Set Set over over medium medium heat heat , , and and warm warm until until steam steam rises rises from from the the surface surface . . Then Then in in a a separate separate bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the egg egg yolks yolks and and vanilla vanilla . . When When the the cream cream is is hot hot , , ladle ladle a a little little bit bit into into the the egg egg yolks yolks while while whisking whisking quickly quickly . . Ladle Ladle in in a a bit bit more more to to bring bring the the yolks yolks up up to to a a high high temperature temperature without without scrambling scrambling them them . . Whisk Whisk the the yolk yolk mixture mixture into into the the rest rest of of the the cream cream . . Ladle Ladle into into the the chocolate chocolate lined lined ramekins ramekins . . Place Place a a towel towel in in the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish , , and and place place the the filled filled ramekins ramekins on on top top of of the the towel towel . . Place Place in in the the oven oven , , and and pour pour boiling boiling water water carefully carefully into into the the baking baking dish dish until until it it comes comes half half way way up up the the sides sides of of the the ramekins ramekins . . Cover Cover the the dish dish loosely loosely with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , just just until until the the custard custard is is set set . . Remove Remove ramekins ramekins from from the the dish dish , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Before Before serving serving , , sprinkle sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of sugar sugar over over the the top top of of each each creme creme brulee brulee . . Use Use a a kitchen kitchen torch torch or or your your oven oven 's 's broiler broiler to to caramelize caramelize the the sugar sugar . . It It may may take take 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes in in the the broiler broiler . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
2 boneless boneless pork pork loin loin chops chops , , butterflied butterflied 4 4 ounces ounces crumbled crumbled blue blue cheese cheese 2 2 slices slices bacon bacon - - cooked cooked and and crumbled crumbled 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh chives chives garlic garlic salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley for for garnish garnish | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a shallow shallow baking baking dish dish . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the blue blue cheese cheese , , bacon bacon and and chives chives . . Divide Divide into into halves halves , , and and pack pack each each half half into into a a loose loose ball ball . . Place Place each each one one into into a a pocket pocket of of a a butterflied butterflied pork pork chop chop , , close close , , and and secure secure with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Season Season each each chop chop with with garlic garlic salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Keep Keep in in mind mind that that the the blue blue cheese cheese will will be be salty salty . . Place Place in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake for for 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or it it may may take take longer longer if if your your chops chops are are thicker thicker . . Cook Cook until until the the stuffing stuffing is is hot hot , , and and chops chops are are to to your your desired desired degree degree of of doneness doneness . . Garnish Garnish with with fresh fresh parsley parsley and and serve serve . 
8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 8 8 slices slices ham ham 8 8 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1 1 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) package package herb-seasoned herb-seasoned dry dry bread bread stuffing stuffing mix mix | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts in in a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Lay Lay a a ham ham slice slice , , then then a a cheese cheese slice slice on on top top of of each each breast breast . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl combine combine the the soup soup , , sour sour cream cream , , wine wine , , garlic garlic powder powder , , parsley parsley , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Mix Mix well well and and pour pour mixture mixture over over chicken/ham/cheese chicken/ham/cheese pieces pieces . . Top Top all all with with the the dry dry stuffing stuffing mix mix to to cover cover . . Bake Bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 6 6 egg egg yolks yolks 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/3 1/3 cup cup unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 6 6 egg egg whites whites 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a 10x15 10x15 inch inch jellyroll jellyroll pan pan with with parchment parchment paper paper . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , whip whip cream cream , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup cocoa cocoa , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla until until thick thick and and stiff stiff . . Refrigerate Refrigerate . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , use use an an electric electric mixer mixer to to beat beat egg egg yolks yolks with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar until until thick thick and and pale pale . . Blend Blend in in 1/3 1/3 cup cup cocoa cocoa , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla , , and and salt salt . . In In large large glass glass bowl bowl , , using using clean clean beaters beaters , , whip whip egg egg whites whites to to soft soft peaks peaks . . Gradually Gradually add add 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , and and beat beat until until whites whites form form stiff stiff peaks peaks . . Immediately Immediately fold fold the the yolk yolk mixture mixture into into the the whites whites . . Spread Spread the the batter batter evenly evenly into into the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake for for 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until the the cake cake springs springs back back when when lightly lightly touched touched . . Dust Dust a a clean clean dishtowel dishtowel with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Run Run a a knife knife around around the the edge edge of of the the pan pan , , and and turn turn the the warm warm cake cake out out onto onto the the towel towel . . Remove Remove and and discard discard parchment parchment paper paper . . Starting Starting at at the the short short edge edge of of the the cake cake , , roll roll the the cake cake up up with with the the towel towel . . Cool Cool for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Unroll Unroll the the cake cake , , and and spread spread the the filling filling to to within within 1 1 inch inch of of the the edge edge . . Roll Roll the the cake cake up up with with the the filling filling inside inside . . Place Place seam seam side side down down onto onto a a serving serving plate plate , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until serving serving . . Dust Dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar before before serving serving . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded to to 1/2 1/2 inch inch thickness thickness 6 6 string string cheese cheese sticks sticks 6 6 slices slices ham ham 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 cup cup seasoned seasoned dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs toothpicks toothpicks | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lay Lay out out the the pounded pounded chicken chicken breasts breasts on on a a clean clean surface surface . . Place Place a a slice slice of of ham ham on on each each piece piece , , then then one one stick stick of of cheese cheese . . Roll Roll the the chicken chicken up up around around the the cheese cheese and and ham ham , , and and secure secure with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Dip Dip each each roll roll in in melted melted butter butter , , then then roll roll in in bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Place Place in in a a shallow shallow baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake for for 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until chicken chicken is is browned browned and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
4 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 French French baguette baguette , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute the the onions onions in in the the butter butter or or margarine margarine for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until onions onions are are tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , ground ground black black pepper pepper and and the the sugar sugar to to form form a a pasty pasty mixture mixture . . Now Now add add the the beef beef broth broth , , water water , , parsley parsley and and thyme thyme and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , Then Then add add the the wine wine and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to broil broil . . Fill Fill individual individual oven oven safe safe bowls bowls 3/4 3/4 full full with with the the soup soup . . Place Place a a slice slice of of bread bread on on top top of of the the soup soup and and cover cover with with the the cheese cheese . . Place Place bowls bowls in in the the oven oven . . Broil Broil in in the the oven oven until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly 
1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 lemons lemons , , juiced juiced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch | | Coat Coat chicken chicken with with flour flour , , then then egg egg beat beat , , then then saute saute in in a a large large skillet skillet until until almost almost cooked cooked through through . . Drain Drain on on paper paper toweling toweling . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan combine combine the the wine wine , , broth broth , , parsley parsley , , salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste , , butter butter or or margarine margarine and and lemon lemon juice juice over over medium medium low low heat heat . . Stir Stir together together while while heating heating slowly slowly . . When When butter butter or or margarine margarine has has melted melted , , slowly slowly stir stir in in cornstarch cornstarch until until sauce sauce thickens thickens slightly slightly . . Place Place chicken chicken in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish and and pour pour sauce sauce over over all all . . Bake Bake at at 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 small small eggplant eggplant , , trimmed trimmed and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 zucchini zucchini , , trimmed trimmed and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 yellow yellow squash squash , , trimmed trimmed and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , cored cored and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , cored cored and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon fresh fresh thyme thyme leaves leaves , , or or to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread tomato tomato paste paste into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 10x10-inch 10x10-inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with onion onion and and garlic garlic and and stir stir in in 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil and and water water until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Arrange Arrange alternating alternating slices slices of of eggplant eggplant , , zucchini zucchini , , yellow yellow squash squash , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , and and yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , starting starting at at the the outer outer edge edge of of the the dish dish and and working working concentrically concentrically towards towards the the center center . . Overlap Overlap the the slices slices a a little little to to display display the the colors colors . . Drizzle Drizzle the the vegetables vegetables with with 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil and and season season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with thyme thyme leaves leaves . . Cover Cover vegetables vegetables with with a a piece piece of of parchment parchment paper paper cut cut to to fit fit inside inside . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until vegetables vegetables are are roasted roasted and and tender tender , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve with with dollops dollops of of mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese . 
2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 3 3 egg egg yolks yolks 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and line line the the bottom bottom of of a a large large baking baking pan pan with with a a damp damp kitchen kitchen cloth cloth . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to boil boil . . While While water water is is boiling boiling , , combine combine cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar and and salt salt in in saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir occasionally occasionally 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until steam steam rises rises . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , beat beat egg egg yolks yolks and and vanilla vanilla until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour hot hot cream cream into into yolks yolks , , a a little little at at a a time time , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until all all cream cream is is incorporated incorporated . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into four four 6 6 oz oz . . ramekins ramekins . . Place Place ramekins ramekins on on towel towel in in baking baking dish dish , , and and place place dish dish on on oven oven rack rack . . Pour Pour boiling boiling water water into into dish dish to to halfway halfway up up the the sides sides of of the the ramekins ramekins . . Cover Cover whole whole pan pan loosely loosely with with foil foil . . Bake Bake 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until custard custard is is just just set set . . Chill Chill ramekins ramekins in in refrigerator refrigerator 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Before Before serving serving , , sprinkle sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sugar sugar over over each each custard custard . . Use Use a a kitchen kitchen torch torch or or oven oven broiler broiler to to brown brown top top , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . 
2 onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 6 6 slices slices French French bread bread , , toasted toasted 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Separate Separate sliced sliced onion onion into into single single rings rings . . In In a a medium medium sauce sauce pan pan saute saute onions onions in in butter butter until until soft soft , , approximately approximately 20 20 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in flour flour and and gradually gradually add add broth broth and and water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , toast toast French French bread bread slices slices . . Place Place toasted toasted bread bread into into soup soup bowls bowls . . Pour Pour soup soup mixture mixture over over bread bread and and sprinkle sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan and and Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Bake Bake for for 10 10 minutes minutes . 
3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 2/3 2/3 cups cups warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh rosemary rosemary ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh sage sage ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine the the flour flour , , yeast yeast , , and and salt salt in in a a large large bowl bowl and and mix mix to to combine combine . . Add Add the the water water and and herbs herbs , , if if using using , , and and mix mix well well . . The The dough dough will will be be very very sticky sticky and and shaggy-looking shaggy-looking . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and set set aside aside at at room room temperature temperature for for 18 18 to to 24 24 hours hours . . Generously Generously flour flour a a work work surface surface . . The The dough dough will will have have risen risen and and will will be be covered covered in in bubbles bubbles . . Transfer Transfer the the dough dough to to the the work work surface surface and and dust dust it it with with flour flour . . Fold Fold the the dough dough in in half half , , and and then then form form the the dough dough into into a a ball ball by by stretching stretching and and tucking tucking the the edges edges of of the the dough dough underneath underneath the the ball ball . . Liberally Liberally flour flour a a kitchen kitchen towel towel ( ( do do not not use use terrycloth terrycloth ) ) . . Place Place the the dough dough ball ball on on the the floured floured towel towel . . Cover Cover with with another another floured floured towel towel . . Let Let the the dough dough rise rise for for about about two two hours hours [ [ see see footnote footnote ] ] . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place a a lidded lidded Dutch Dutch oven oven or or deep deep heavy heavy duty duty casserole casserole dish dish ( ( with with lid lid ) ) into into the the oven oven to to preheat preheat . . Carefully Carefully remove remove the the hot hot baking baking dish dish from from the the oven oven . . Remove Remove the the lid lid and and gently gently turn turn the the dough dough ball ball into into the the ungreased ungreased baking baking dish dish , , seam-side seam-side up up ; ; shake shake the the dish dish so so the the dough dough is is more more evenly evenly distributed distributed . . Cover Cover and and bake bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the lid lid and and bake bake until until the the crust crust is is golden golden brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the loaf loaf from from the the baking baking dish dish and and let let it it cool cool on on a a rack rack before before slicing slicing . 
1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 pounds pounds cubed cubed stew stew meat meat 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 carrots carrots , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups red red wine wine 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can canned canned onions onions | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine the the flour flour , , salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Coat Coat the the beef beef cubes cubes with with this this mixture mixture . . Melt Melt the the butter butter or or margarine margarine in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add the the meat meat and and brown brown well well on on all all sides sides . . Pour Pour this this into into a a 2 2 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish . . Return Return the the skillet skillet to to the the heat heat and and add add the the onion onion , , carrots carrots and and garlic garlic to to it it . . Saute Saute for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until onion onion is is tender tender . . add add the the wine wine , , bay bay leaf leaf , , parsley parsley , , thyme thyme , , and and liquid liquid from from the the mushrooms mushrooms . . Pour Pour over over meat meat . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Remove Remove cover cover , , add add canned canned onions onions and and mushroom mushroom crowns crowns , , and and bake bake for for 30 30 more more minutes minutes . 
1 cup cup chopped chopped dried dried figs figs 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried rosemary rosemary 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2/3 2/3 cup cup chopped chopped kalamata kalamata olives olives 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped toasted toasted walnuts walnuts 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese | | Combine Combine figs figs and and water water in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , and and liquid liquid has has reduced reduced . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and stir stir in in the the olive olive oil oil , , balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , rosemary rosemary , , thyme thyme , , and and cayenne cayenne . . Add Add olives olives and and garlic garlic , , and and mix mix well well . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4 4 hours hours or or overnight overnight to to allow allow flavors flavors to to blend blend . . Unwrap Unwrap cream cream cheese cheese block block , , and and place place on on a a serving serving platter platter . . Spoon Spoon tapenade tapenade over over cheese cheese , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with walnuts walnuts . . Serve Serve with with slices slices of of French French bread bread or or crackers crackers . 
1/2 ( ( 17.5 17.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen puff puff pastry pastry , , thawed thawed 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) wheel wheel Brie Brie cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup sliced sliced almonds almonds | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degree degree C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9 9 inch inch pie pie pan pan . . Slice Slice the the wheel wheel of of Brie Brie in in half half , , horizontally horizontally , , so so that that the the halves halves are are two two , , flatter flatter wheels wheels of of Brie Brie . . Lay Lay the the puff puff pastry pastry in in the the pie pie pan pan . . Place Place half half of of the the Brie Brie ( ( rind-side rind-side down down ) ) onto onto the the pastry pastry dough dough . . Sprinkle Sprinkle almonds almonds evenly evenly over over the the top top . . Place Place the the other other half half of of the the Brie Brie ( ( rind-side rind-side up up ) ) over over the the almonds almonds . . Bundle Bundle the the pastry pastry dough dough around around the the Brie Brie . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Let Let cool cool for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/3 1/3 cup cup shortening shortening 1 1 egg egg 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons margarine margarine , , melted melted | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease 12 12 muffin muffin cups cups or or line line cups cups with with paper paper muffin muffin liners liners . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together flour flour , , baking baking powder powder , , salt salt , , and and nutmeg nutmeg . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , cream cream together together 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar and and shortening shortening . . Beat Beat in in egg egg . . Stir Stir flour flour mixture mixture into into shortening shortening mixture mixture alternately alternately with with milk milk . . Beat Beat well well . . Spoon Spoon batter batter into into prepared prepared muffin muffin cups cups . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . While While muffins muffins are are baking baking , , combine combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cinnamon cinnamon . . Remove Remove muffins muffins from from oven oven and and muffin muffin pan pan . . Immediately Immediately , , dip dip the the tops tops of of the the muffins muffins into into the the melted melted margarine margarine , , then then into into the the sugar/cinnamon sugar/cinnamon mixture mixture . . Repeat Repeat with with each each muffin muffin , , until until all all muffin muffin tops tops are are covered covered . . Serve Serve warm warm . 
1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried dill dill weed weed 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , divided divided 4 4 boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into rings rings 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 8 8 ounces ounces Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese , , shredded shredded | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a shallow shallow dish dish , , stir stir together together the the flour flour , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , parsley parsley , , and and dill dill . . Rinse Rinse chicken chicken breasts breasts , , and and pat pat dry dry . . Dredge Dredge chicken chicken in in the the flour flour mixture mixture . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , heat heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the butter butter over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Place Place chicken chicken into into the the hot hot buttered buttered skillet skillet , , and and fry fry until until brown brown on on both both sides sides . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken breasts breasts to to a a 1 1 quart quart glass glass baking baking dish dish . . Add Add remaining remaining butter butter to to skillet skillet , , and and fry fry the the mushrooms mushrooms and and onion onion until until wilted wilted and and lightly lightly browned browned . . Stir Stir in in the the white white wine wine , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Simmer Simmer for for 3 3 minutes minutes to to blend blend flavors flavors . . Pour Pour the the mushroom mushroom mixture mixture over over the the chicken chicken in in the the dish dish . . Cover Cover dish dish , , and and bake bake for for 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . After After 20 20 minutes minutes , , remove remove cover cover , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Continue Continue baking baking for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese is is lightly lightly browned browned and and bubbly bubbly . 
2 eggs eggs 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon zest zest 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1/3 1/3 cup cup granulated granulated sugar sugar for for decoration decoration | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter and and flour flour 12 12 ( ( 3 3 inch inch ) ) madeleine madeleine molds molds ; ; set set aside aside . . Melt Melt butter butter and and let let cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . In In a a small small mixing mixing bowl bowl , , beat beat eggs eggs , , vanilla vanilla and and salt salt at at high high speed speed until until light light . . Beating Beating constantly constantly , , gradually gradually add add sugar sugar ; ; and and continue continue beating beating at at high high speed speed until until mixture mixture is is thick thick and and pale pale and and ribbons ribbons form form in in bowl bowl when when beaters beaters are are lifted lifted , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Sift Sift flour flour into into egg egg mixture mixture 1/3 1/3 at at a a time time , , gently gently folding folding after after each each addition addition . . Add Add lemon lemon zest zest and and pour pour melted melted butter butter around around edge edge of of batter batter . . Quickly Quickly but but gently gently fold fold butter butter into into batter batter . . Spoon Spoon batter batter into into molds molds ; ; it it will will mound mound slightly slightly above above tops tops . . Bake Bake 14 14 to to 17 17 minutes minutes , , or or until until cakes cakes are are golden golden and and the the tops tops spring spring back back when when gently gently pressed pressed with with your your fingertip fingertip . . Use Use the the tip tip of of the the knife knife to to loosen loosen madeleines madeleines from from pan pan ; ; invert invert onto onto rack rack . . Immediately Immediately sprinkle sprinkle warm warm cookies cookies with with granulated granulated sugar sugar . . Madeleines Madeleines are are best best eaten eaten the the day day they they 're 're baked baked . . Leftover Leftover madeleines madeleines are are wonderful wonderful when when dunked dunked into into coffee coffee or or tea tea . . Variation Variation : : Chocolate Chocolate Madeleines Madeleines : : Omit Omit lemon lemon zest zest . . Increase Increase sugar sugar to to 1/2 1/2 cup cup . . Substitute Substitute 1/4 1/4 cup cup unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder for for 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the flour flour ; ; sift sift into into batter batter with with flour flour . 
1 egg egg 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 2 2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 cup cup plain plain dried dried bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 cup cup oil oil for for frying frying 8 8 ounces ounces Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces cubed cubed ham ham 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1 1 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat egg egg and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk together together until until combined combined . . Stir Stir in in the the chicken chicken chunks chunks to to coat coat , , then then drain drain , , and and coat coat with with bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fry Fry breaded breaded chicken chicken cubes cubes in in hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown on on all all sides sides , , then then remove remove , , and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Place Place chicken chicken cubes cubes in in a a glass glass baking baking dish dish , , along along with with the the Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , and and ham ham . . Stir Stir together together the the soup soup with with 1 1 cup cup milk milk , , pour pour over over casserole casserole . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 recipe recipe pastry pastry for for a a 9 9 inch inch single single crust crust pie pie 6 6 slices slices bacon bacon 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 3 3 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups milk milk 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line pastry pastry shell shell with with foil foil . . Bake Bake in in oven oven for for 8 8 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove foil foil and and bake bake for for an an additional additional 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until crust crust is is set set and and dry dry . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and turn turn down down temperature temperature to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , cook cook bacon bacon until until crisp crisp . . Drain Drain and and reserve reserve 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of drippings drippings . . Crumble Crumble the the bacon bacon and and set set aside aside . . Cook Cook onion onion in in skillet skillet with with reserved reserved drippings drippings ; ; cook cook until until onion onion is is tender tender and and then then drain drain . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together milk milk , , salt salt and and eggs eggs . . Stir Stir in in bacon bacon and and onion onion . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , toss toss cheese cheese and and flour flour together together , , then then add add to to egg egg mixture mixture . . Be Be sure sure to to mix mix well well . . Pour Pour egg egg mixture mixture into into pie pie crust crust . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until knife knife inserted inserted in in center center of of quiche quiche comes comes out out clean clean . . If If necessary necessary , , cover cover edge edge of of crust crust with with foil foil while while baking baking to to prevent prevent burning burning or or overbrowning overbrowning . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
3 egg egg whites whites 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 2/3 2/3 cups cups confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup finely finely ground ground almonds almonds | | Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with a a silicone silicone baking baking mat mat . . Beat Beat egg egg whites whites in in the the bowl bowl of of a a stand stand mixer mixer fitted fitted with with a a whisk whisk attachment attachment until until whites whites are are foamy foamy ; ; beat beat in in white white sugar sugar and and continue continue beating beating until until egg egg whites whites are are glossy glossy , , fluffy fluffy , , and and hold hold soft soft peaks peaks . . Sift Sift confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and ground ground almonds almonds in in a a separate separate bowl bowl and and quickly quickly fold fold the the almond almond mixture mixture into into the the egg egg whites whites , , about about 30 30 strokes strokes . . Spoon Spoon a a small small amount amount of of batter batter into into a a plastic plastic bag bag with with a a small small corner corner cut cut off off and and pipe pipe a a test test disk disk of of batter batter , , about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 inches inches in in diameter diameter , , onto onto prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . If If the the disk disk of of batter batter holds holds a a peak peak instead instead of of flattening flattening immediately immediately , , gently gently fold fold the the batter batter a a few few more more times times and and retest retest . . When When batter batter is is mixed mixed enough enough to to flatten flatten immediately immediately into into an an even even disk disk , , spoon spoon into into a a pastry pastry bag bag fitted fitted with with a a plain plain round round tip tip . . Pipe Pipe the the batter batter onto onto the the baking baking sheet sheet in in rounds rounds , , leaving leaving space space between between the the disks disks . . Let Let the the piped piped cookies cookies stand stand out out at at room room temperature temperature until until they they form form a a hard hard skin skin on on top top , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 285 285 degrees degrees F F ( ( 140 140 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake cookies cookies until until set set but but not not browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; let let cookies cookies cool cool completely completely before before filling filling . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced parsley parsley 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons margarine margarine | | In In a a large large bowl bowl combine combine the the yeast yeast , , sugar sugar , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of the the salt salt and and 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of the the flour flour . . In In a a sauce sauce pan pan combine combine the the milk milk , , water water and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of the the butter butter or or margarine margarine until until 110 110 degrees degrees F F ( ( 38 38 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Add Add milk milk mixture mixture and and vinegar vinegar to to the the flour flour mixture mixture and and blend blend at at low low speed speed of of the the mixer mixer until until moistened moistened . . Beat Beat at at medium medium speed speed for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups additional additional flour flour to to form form a a sticky sticky dough dough . . Turn Turn dough dough out out onto onto a a floured floured surface surface and and knead knead adding adding 1/2 1/2 to to 1 1 cup cup more more of of flour flour until until dough dough is is smooth smooth and and pliable pliable . . Place Place dough dough in in a a greased greased bowl bowl and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in volume volume . . Punch Punch down down dough dough and and roll roll into into a a rectangle rectangle shape shape about about 16x8 16x8 inches inches . . In In a a saucepan saucepan heat heat the the onion onion , , garlic garlic , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , parsley parsley and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter or or margarine margarine until until butter butter or or margarine margarine is is melted melted . . Spread Spread over over the the dough dough rectangle rectangle and and starting starting from from the the 16 16 inch inch side side roll roll the the dough dough up up tightly tightly like like a a jelly jelly roll roll . . Place Place the the bread bread seam seam side side down down onto onto a a greased greased cookie cookie sheet sheet and and let let rise rise until until doubled doubled in in sized sized . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 205 205 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake bread bread until until golden golden brown brown about about 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Brush Brush hot hot bread bread with with melted melted butter butter and and sprinkle sprinkle with with chopped chopped parsley parsley . 
3 cups cups Burgundy Burgundy wine wine 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brandy brandy 2 2 onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 carrots carrots , , chopped chopped 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 10 10 whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 pounds pounds cubed cubed beef beef chuck chuck roast roast 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1/4 1/4 pound pound bacon bacon , , cubed cubed 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced | | For For marinade marinade : : In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the wine wine , , cognac cognac , , onions onions , , carrots carrots , , parsley parsley , , bay bay leaf leaf , , garlic garlic , , peppercorns peppercorns and and salt salt . . Mix Mix well well and and add add the the cubed cubed beef beef . . Cover Cover and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 2 2 days days . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . For For Bourguignon Bourguignon : : Strain Strain the the meat meat from from the the vegetables vegetables and and marinade marinade ; ; reserve reserve marinade marinade . . Dry Dry meat meat with with paper paper towels towels . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add the the meat meat and and saute saute for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until browned browned on on all all sides sides . . Transfer Transfer meat meat to to a a separate separate medium medium bowl bowl with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and set set aside aside . . In In the the same same skillet skillet , , add add the the bacon bacon and and saute saute until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Transfer Transfer the the bacon bacon to to the the bowl bowl with with the the meat meat . . Drain Drain the the skillet skillet and and return return it it to to the the heat heat . . Pour Pour a a cup cup of of marinade marinade into into the the skillet skillet to to deglaze deglaze the the skillet skillet , , scraping scraping the the bottom bottom to to loosen loosen up up all all the the little little bits bits . . Return Return this this liquid liquid to to the the reserved reserved marinade marinade . . Heat Heat the the remaining remaining oil oil in in the the skillet skillet . . Add Add the the onion onion and and carrot carrot from from the the marinade marinade , , along along with with the the additional additional onion onion that that you you 've 've chopped chopped , , and and saute saute for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until tender tender . . Transfer Transfer this this mixture mixture to to the the bowl bowl with with the the meat meat and and bacon bacon , , again again using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon , , and and return return skillet skillet to to the the heat heat . . Add Add the the flour flour to to the the skillet skillet , , combining combining with with the the oil oil and and stir stir until until well well mixed mixed and and brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Now Now add add the the tomato tomato paste paste , , garlic garlic , , beef beef broth broth , , reserved reserved marinade marinade and and salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and whisk whisk to to remove remove any any flour flour lumps lumps . . Add Add this this to to the the meat meat and and vegetable vegetable mixture mixture . . Place Place entire entire mixture mixture into into a a 9x13 9x13 baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake at at 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 3 3 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally and and adding adding water water as as needed needed . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . About About 15 15 minutes minutes before before meat meat is is done done baking baking , , melt melt butter butter in in the the skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add the the mushrooms mushrooms and and saute saute for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until lightly lightly browned browned . . When When meat meat is is done done , , add add the the mushrooms mushrooms to to the the meat meat mixture mixture , , stir stir well well and and let let sit sit for for about about 15 15 minutes minutes . 
2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cultured cultured buttermilk buttermilk | | Combine Combine cream cream and and buttermilk buttermilk in in a a glass glass jar jar . . Cover Cover tightly tightly with with cheesecloth cheesecloth ( ( or or any any breathable breathable material material ) ) and and let let sit sit at at room room temperature temperature ( ( 70 70 to to 75 75 degrees degrees F F ( ( 21 21 to to 24 24 degrees degrees C C ) ) ) ) for for 24 24 hours hours . . Stir Stir , , screw screw on on lid lid , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 24 24 hours hours before before using using . 
3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1 1 cup cup pitted pitted kalamata kalamata olives olives 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Place Place the the garlic garlic cloves cloves into into a a blender blender or or food food processor processor ; ; pulse pulse to to mince mince . . Add Add the the olives olives , , capers capers , , parsley parsley , , lemon lemon juice juice , , and and olive olive oil oil Blend Blend until until everything everything is is finely finely chopped chopped . . Season Season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 6 6 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons Irish Irish cream cream liqueur liqueur superfine superfine sugar sugar as as needed needed | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place 6 6 ramekins ramekins on on a a towel towel set set in in a a roasting roasting pan pan at at least least 3 3 inches inches deep deep . . Stir Stir together together cream cream and and sugar sugar in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , and and cook cook until until very very hot hot , , stirring stirring until until the the sugar sugar dissolves dissolves . . Whisk Whisk together together egg egg yolks yolks , , vanilla vanilla , , and and Irish Irish cream cream until until combined combined . . Slowly Slowly add add 1/3 1/3 of of the the hot hot cream cream , , whisking whisking it it in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons at at a a time time until until incorporated incorporated . . Once Once you you have have incorporated incorporated 1/3 1/3 of of the the cream cream , , you you can can stir stir in in the the remaining remaining hot hot cream cream without without fear fear of of the the mixture mixture curdling curdling . . Pour Pour custard custard into into the the ramekins ramekins , , then then fill fill roasting roasting pan pan with with boiling boiling hot hot water water to to come come halfway halfway up up the the sides sides of of the the ramekins ramekins . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until set set , , 50 50 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Once Once the the custard custard has has set set , , place place ramekins ramekins on on a a wire wire rack rack , , and and allow allow to to cool cool to to room room temperature temperature , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until cold cold , , about about 4 4 hours hours . . Custards Custards may may remain remain refrigerated refrigerated until until ready ready to to serve serve . . Unwrap Unwrap the the custards custards , , and and sprinkle sprinkle about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon of of superfine superfine sugar sugar onto onto each each . . Gently Gently shake shake the the custards custards so so the the sugar sugar coats coats the the entire entire top top surface surface , , then then tip tip the the custards custards to to a a 45 45 degree degree angle angle and and shake shake off off excess excess sugar sugar . . Using Using a a small small hand hand torch torch , , melt melt the the sugar sugar by by making making short short passes passes over over top top of of the the custards custards with with the the flame flame not not quite quite touching touching . . Continue Continue melting melting the the sugar sugar until until it it turns turns deep deep brown brown . . Once Once the the sugar sugar has has melted melted and and turned turned to to caramel caramel , , the the cold cold custard custard underneath underneath will will harden harden the the sugar sugar into into a a crispy crispy crust crust . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . . Alternatively Alternatively , , the the sugar-dusted sugar-dusted custards custards may may be be browned browned underneath underneath the the broiler broiler in in the the oven oven . 
3/4 cup cup water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons honey honey 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 2/3 2/3 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2/3 2/3 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 2 2 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Add Add to to your your bread bread machine machine per per manufacturer manufacturer instructions instructions . . While While bread bread is is baking baking , , drizzle drizzle with with honey honey if if desired desired . 
3 pounds pounds Yukon Yukon Gold Gold potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and very very thinly thinly sliced sliced 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream , , divided divided freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups freshly freshly shredded shredded Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese , , divided divided | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place potatoes potatoes , , garlic garlic , , and and salt salt into into a a large large pot pot , , fill fill with with enough enough water water to to cover cover , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and simmer simmer the the potatoes potatoes until until tender tender but but not not mushy mushy , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . With With a a slotted slotted spoon spoon , , transfer transfer about about half half the the potatoes potatoes to to a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour half half of of the the cream cream over over the the potatoes potatoes , , season season with with black black pepper pepper and and nutmeg nutmeg , , and and sprinkle sprinkle half half of of the the Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese onto onto the the mixture mixture . . Top Top with with the the remaining remaining potatoes potatoes ; ; sprinkle sprinkle again again with with black black pepper pepper and and nutmeg nutmeg . . Pour Pour on on the the remaining remaining cream cream , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with remaining remaining Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the cheese cheese topping topping is is crisp crisp and and brown brown on on top top , , about about 1 1 hour hour . 
2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lemon lemon zest zest 1 1 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 3/4 3/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted and and cooled cooled | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour twenty-four twenty-four 3-inch 3-inch Madeleine Madeleine molds molds . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl beat beat eggs eggs , , vanilla vanilla and and lemon lemon zest zest with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on high high speed speed for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Gradually Gradually beat beat in in the the confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Beat Beat for for 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes or or until until thick thick and and satiny satiny . . Sift Sift together together the the flour flour and and baking baking powder powder . . Sift Sift one-fourth one-fourth of of the the flour flour mixture mixture over over the the egg egg mixture mixture , , gently gently fold fold in in . . Fold Fold in in the the remaining remaining flour flour by by fourths fourths . . Then Then fold fold in in the the melted melted and and cooled cooled butter butter . . Spoon Spoon batter batter into into the the prepared prepared molds molds , , filling filling 3/4 3/4 full full . . Bake Bake at at 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes or or until until the the edges edges are are golden golden and and the the top top s s spring spring back back . . Cool Cool in in molds molds on on a a rack rack for for 1 1 minute minute . . Loosen Loosen cookies cookies with with a a knife knife . . Invert Invert cookies cookies onto onto a a rack rack and and cool cool . . Sift Sift confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar over over the the tops tops or or melt melt semi-sweet semi-sweet chocolate chocolate chips chips and and dip dip the the tips tips in in the the chocolate chocolate . . Store Store in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
5 onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 6 6 cups cups beef beef broth broth 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter or or margarine margarine 1 1 pound pound shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) loaf loaf French French bread bread , , sliced sliced | | In In a a medium medium stock stock pot pot , , heat heat beef beef broth broth over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . In In a a saute saute pan pan , , add add butter butter and and oil oil and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Once Once heated heated , , add add onions onions and and stir stir , , until until onions onions are are tender tender and and transparent transparent . . Stir Stir in in sugar sugar . . Add Add onions onions to to heated heated broth broth , , stir stir and and let let simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add wine wine and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour soup soup mixture mixture into into individual individual serving serving bowls bowls and and place place a a slice slice of of bread bread on on top top , , making making sure sure bread bread gets gets well well soaked soaked . . Place Place shredded shredded cheese cheese on on top top of of bread bread and and broil broil , , 3 3 inches inches below below heat heat , , until until cheese cheese bubbles bubbles . 
1 ( ( 9 9 inch inch ) ) refrigerated refrigerated pie pie crust crust 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 3 3 leeks leeks , , chopped chopped 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup light light cream cream 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups shredded shredded Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Stir Stir in in leeks leeks ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until soft soft . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low . . Stir Stir in in cream cream and and cheese cheese , , and and warm warm through through . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into pie pie shell shell Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until custard custard is is set set and and golden golden on on top top . . Allow Allow to to sit sit 10 10 minutes minutes before before cutting cutting pie pie into into wedges wedges . 
6 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar , , divided divided 14 14 Italian Italian prune prune plums plums , , halved halved and and pitted pitted 3 3 eggs eggs 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups milk milk 2/3 2/3 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons grated grated lemon lemon zest zest 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Butter Butter a a 10 10 inch inch pie pie plate plate , , and and sprinkle sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of sugar sugar over over the the bottom bottom . . Arrange Arrange the the plum plum halves halves , , cut cut side side down down , , so so that that they they cover cover the the entire entire bottom bottom of of the the pie pie plate plate . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of sugar sugar over over the the top top of of the the plums plums . . In In a a blender blender , , combine combine the the remaining remaining 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of sugar sugar , , eggs eggs , , milk milk , , flour flour , , lemon lemon zest zest , , cinnamon cinnamon , , vanilla vanilla , , and and salt salt . . Process Process until until smooth smooth , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour over over the the fruit fruit in in the the pan pan . . Bake Bake for for 50 50 to to 60 60 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until firm firm and and lightly lightly browned browned . . Let Let stand stand 5 5 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . . Dust Dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar before before serving serving . 
1/2 cup cup egg egg whites whites 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cream cream of of tartar tartar 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 4 4 ounces ounces chocolate chocolate confectioners confectioners ' ' coating coating | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 225 225 degrees degrees F F ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line 2 2 cookie cookie sheets sheets with with parchment parchment paper paper or or aluminum aluminum foil foil . . In In a a large large glass glass or or metal metal bowl bowl , , use use an an electric electric mixer mixer to to whip whip egg egg whites whites until until foamy foamy . . Add Add cream cream of of tartar tartar , , salt salt , , and and vanilla vanilla . . Continue Continue whipping whipping until until the the whites whites hold hold soft soft peaks peaks . . Gradually Gradually sprinkle sprinkle in in the the sugar sugar so so that that it it does does not not sink sink to to the the bottom bottom , , and and continue continue whipping whipping until until the the mixture mixture holds holds stiff stiff shiny shiny peaks peaks . . Place Place a a round round tip tip into into a a pastry pastry bag bag , , and and fill fill the the bag bag half half way way with with the the meringue meringue . . To To pipe pipe the the mushroom mushroom caps caps , , squeeze squeeze out out round round mounds mounds of of meringue meringue onto onto one one of of the the prepared prepared cookie cookie sheets sheets . . Pull Pull the the bag bag off off to to the the side side to to avoid avoid making making peaks peaks on on the the top top . . For For the the stems stems , , press press out out a a tiny tiny bit bit of of meringue meringue onto onto the the other other sheet sheet , , then then pull pull the the bag bag straight straight up up . . They They should should resemble resemble candy candy kisses kisses . . Do Do not not worry worry about about making making all all of of the the pieces pieces exactly exactly the the same same . . The The mushrooms mushrooms will will look look more more natural natural if if the the pieces pieces are are different different sizes sizes . . Dust Dust the the mushroom mushroom caps caps lightly lightly with with cocoa cocoa using using a a small small sifter sifter or or strainer strainer . . Bake Bake for for 1 1 hour hour in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until the the caps caps are are dry dry enough enough to to easily easily remove remove from from the the cookie cookie sheets sheets . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool completely completely . . Melt Melt the the coating coating chocolate chocolate in in a a metal metal bowl bowl over over simmering simmering water water , , or or in in a a glass glass bowl bowl in in the the microwave microwave , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until smooth smooth . . Poke Poke a a small small hole hole in in the the bottom bottom of of a a mushroom mushroom cap cap . . Spread Spread chocolate chocolate over over the the bottom bottom of of the the cap cap . . Dip Dip the the tip tip of of a a stem stem in in chocolate chocolate , , and and press press lightly lightly into into the the hole hole . . When When the the chocolate chocolate sets sets , , they they will will hold hold together together . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining pieces pieces . . Store Store at at room room temperature temperature in in a a dry dry place place or or tin tin . 
2 slices slices whole whole wheat wheat bread bread 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sour sour cream cream 2 2 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 thick thick slice slice deli deli cooked cooked chicken chicken breast breast meat meat 1 1 slice slice deli deli ham ham | | Spread Spread butter butter or or margarine margarine on on the the outsides outsides of of the the bread bread slices slices . . Spread Spread sour sour cream cream on on the the insides insides of of the the bread bread slices slices . . Then Then layer layer sandwich sandwich as as follows follows : : Bread Bread slice slice , , cheese cheese slice slice , , chicken chicken , , ham ham , , 2nd 2nd cheese cheese slice slice , , 2nd 2nd bread bread slice slice . . In In a a small small skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , grill grill sandwich sandwich until until meat meat is is heated heated through through and and cheese cheese has has melted melted . 
4 onions onions , , chopped chopped 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 3 3 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 French French baguette baguette , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute the the onions onions in in the the butter butter or or margarine margarine for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until onions onions are are tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , ground ground black black pepper pepper and and the the sugar sugar to to form form a a pasty pasty mixture mixture . . Now Now add add the the beef beef broth broth , , water water , , parsley parsley and and thyme thyme and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , Then Then add add the the wine wine and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to broil broil . . Fill Fill individual individual oven oven safe safe bowls bowls 3/4 3/4 full full with with the the soup soup . . Place Place a a slice slice of of bread bread on on top top of of the the soup soup and and cover cover with with the the cheese cheese . . Place Place bowls bowls in in the the oven oven . . Broil Broil in in the the oven oven until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 4 4 slices slices ham ham 4 4 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/3 1/3 cup cup milk milk 1 1 cup cup dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1/2 1/2 pound pound fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon curry curry powder powder 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 2 2 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh parsley parsley , , for for garnish garnish | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Flatten Flatten chicken chicken breasts breasts without without breaking breaking through through meat meat . . Roll Roll each each ham ham slice slice in in a a cheese cheese slice slice , , then then roll roll up up in in chicken chicken breasts breasts . . In In a a shallow shallow dish dish or or bowl bowl season season flour flour with with salt salt , , pepper pepper and and paprika paprika . . In In a a separate separate dish dish or or bowl bowl beat beat together together eggs eggs and and milk milk . . Dip Dip chicken chicken rolls rolls in in seasoned seasoned flour flour , , then then egg egg mixture mixture , , then then bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet and and fry fry chicken chicken in in hot hot oil oil until until golden golden brown brown . . Set Set aside aside . . To To Make Make Sauce Sauce : : In In a a large large bowl bowl combine combine the the soup soup , , mushrooms mushrooms , , garlic garlic powder powder , , curry curry powder powder , , wine wine and and sour sour cream cream . . Mix Mix all all together together . . Place Place browned browned chicken chicken in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour sauce sauce mixture mixture over over chicken chicken and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish with with fresh fresh parsley parsley sprigs sprigs . 
1 cup cup white white rice rice 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons herbes herbes de de Provence Provence 1 1 pinch pinch sea sea salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch pepper pepper | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan stir stir together together rice rice , , chicken chicken stock stock , , herbes herbes de de Provence Provence , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Set Set over over high high heat heat , , and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer ; ; cover cover , , and and cook cook 20 20 minutes minutes . . Fluff Fluff with with a a fork fork , , and and serve serve . 
1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1 1 egg egg 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | In In a a medium-size medium-size mixing mixing bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the flour flour , , milk milk , , egg egg and and salt salt . . Heat Heat a a large large frying frying pan pan or or wok wok over over medium medium high high heat heat . . When When the the pan pan is is hot hot add add a a teaspoon teaspoon of of butter butter and and lightly lightly coat coat the the surface surface of of the the pan pan with with the the melted melted butter butter . . Pour Pour one one quarter quarter cup cup of of the the batter batter into into the the pan pan and and tilt tilt the the pan pan with with a a circular circular motion motion so so that that the the batter batter coats coats the the surface surface in in a a smooth smooth and and even even layer layer . . After After two two minutes minutes , , lift lift up up an an edge edge of of the the crepe crepe with with a a spatula spatula to to see see if if it it is is browning browning . . When When the the underside underside has has begun begun to to brown brown , , flip flip the the crepe crepe and and cook cook the the other other side side until until it it is is also also brown brown ; ; about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Repeat Repeat steps steps 3 3 and and 4 4 to to cook cook the the remaining remaining crepes crepes . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
Pastry : : 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold water water , , or or as as needed needed Frangipane Frangipane : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon apple apple brandy brandy 2/3 2/3 cup cup ground ground almonds almonds 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 medium medium sweet sweet apples apples - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , halved halved and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar for for decoration decoration 1/4 1/4 cup cup apricot apricot jelly jelly | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , stir stir together together 1 1 1/3 1/3 cups cups of of flour flour and and salt salt . . Add Add the the butter butter , , 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk and and water water , , and and stir stir until until the the mixture mixture forms forms large large crumbs crumbs . . If If it it is is too too dry dry to to press press a a handful handful together together , , stir stir in in more more water water . . Press Press the the dough dough into into a a ball ball , , and and wrap wrap in in plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Flatten Flatten slightly slightly , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until firm firm . . This This part part can can be be done done up up to to three three days days in in advance advance . . To To make make the the frangipane frangipane , , cream cream together together the the butter butter and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of sugar sugar in in a a medium medium bowl bowl until until light light and and soft soft . . Gradually Gradually mix mix in in the the egg egg and and the the remaining remaining egg egg yolk yolk one one at at a a time time . . Stir Stir in in the the apple apple brandy brandy . . Stir Stir 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of flour flour into into the the ground ground almonds almonds , , then then mix mix into into the the batter batter . . Set Set aside aside . . Roll Roll the the pastry pastry dough dough out out to to about about a a 12 12 inch inch circle circle on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface . . Fold Fold loosely loosely into into quarters quarters , , and and center center the the point point in in a a 10 10 inch inch tart tart or or pie pie pan pan . . Unfold Unfold dough dough , , and and press press into into the the bottom bottom and and up up the the sides sides . . Prick Prick with with a a fork fork all all over over , , and and flute flute the the edges edges . . Return Return pastry pastry to to the the refrigerator refrigerator to to chill chill until until firm firm . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place a a baking baking sheet sheet inside inside the the oven oven while while it it preheats preheats . . Spoon Spoon the the frangipane frangipane into into the the chilled chilled pastry pastry , , and and spread spread into into an an even even layer layer . . Arrange Arrange the the apple apple slices slices in in an an overlapping overlapping spiral spiral pattern pattern . . Each Each slice slice should should have have one one edge edge pressed pressed into into the the frangipane frangipane until until it it touches touches the the pastry pastry base base , , and and then then overlap overlap the the previous previous slice slice . . Start Start at at the the outside outside edge edge , , and and work work towards towards the the center center . . Place Place the the pie pie plate plate on on top top of of the the baking baking sheet sheet in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the filling filling begins begins to to brown brown . . Reduce Reduce the the oven oven temperature temperature to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake for for another another 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then sprinkle sprinkle sugar sugar over over the the top top of of the the tart tart . . Return Return to to the the oven oven for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes , , or or until until the the sugar sugar caramelizes caramelizes slightly slightly . . Cool Cool the the tart tart on on a a wire wire rack rack . . A A short short time time before before serving serving , , warm warm the the apricot apricot jelly jelly . . Add Add some some water water if if necessary necessary to to make make it it a a liquid liquid consistency consistency . . Brush Brush onto onto the the tart tart for for a a nice nice shine shine . 
1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 cup cup dry dry sherry sherry 1/4 1/4 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken base base | | Mix Mix together together the the flour flour , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . In In another another bowl bowl , , whisk whisk beaten beaten eggs eggs , , sugar sugar , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese until until the the mixture mixture is is thoroughly thoroughly blended blended and and the the sugar sugar has has dissolved dissolved . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until the the oil oil shimmers shimmers . . Dip Dip the the chicken chicken breasts breasts into into the the flour flour mixture mixture , , then then into into the the egg egg mixture mixture , , and and gently gently lay lay them them into into the the skillet skillet . . Pan-fry Pan-fry the the chicken chicken breasts breasts until until golden golden brown brown and and no no longer longer pink pink in in the the middle middle , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . Remove Remove from from the the skillet skillet and and set set aside aside . . In In the the same same skillet skillet over over medium-low medium-low heat heat , , melt melt the the butter butter , , and and stir stir in in garlic garlic , , sherry sherry , , lemon lemon juice juice , , and and chicken chicken base base . . Bring Bring the the sauce sauce to to a a simmer simmer , , and and stir stir until until smooth smooth and and slightly slightly thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Be Be sure sure to to dissolve dissolve any any brown brown flavor flavor bits bits from from the the bottom bottom of of the the skillet skillet as as you you stir stir . . Return Return the the chicken chicken breasts breasts to to the the sauce sauce , , and and gently gently simmer simmer until until no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . To To serve serve , , place place a a chicken chicken breast breast on on a a plate plate , , and and top top with with sauce sauce . 
2 cups cups semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate chips chips 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Place Place chocolate chocolate chips chips in in a a large large bowl bowl , , or or in in the the bowl bowl of of a a stand stand mixer mixer . . Pour Pour the the cream cream into into a a saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . As As soon soon as as the the cream cream boils boils up up to to the the top top of of the the pan pan , , quickly quickly remove remove it it from from the the heat heat , , and and pour pour it it over over the the chips chips . . Let Let stand stand for for a a minute minute or or two two , , then then stir stir with with a a whisk whisk , , or or use use the the paddle paddle attachment attachment for for the the mixer mixer , , to to mix mix until until smooth smooth . . Be Be sure sure to to scrape scrape the the bottom bottom of of the the bowl bowl occasionally occasionally . . Stir Stir in in the the vanilla vanilla until until well well blended blended . . Place Place a a piece piece of of plastic plastic wrap wrap directly directly on on the the surface surface , , and and allow allow to to cool cool at at room room temperature temperature , , or or in in the the refrigerator refrigerator . 
1/4 cup cup coarsely coarsely crushed crushed black black peppercorns peppercorns 4 4 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) 1 1 1/2 1/2 inch inch thick thick filet filet mignon mignon steaks steaks salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/3 1/3 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream | | Place Place the the peppercorns peppercorns into into a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the beef beef tenderloin tenderloin filets filets with with salt salt on on both both sides sides , , and and coat coat both both sides sides with with crushed crushed peppercorns peppercorns . . Melt Melt the the butter butter with with the the olive olive oil oil over over high high heat heat in in a a heavy heavy skillet skillet ( ( not not nonstick nonstick ) ) until until the the foam foam disappears disappears from from the the butter butter . . Gently Gently place place the the steaks steaks in in the the pan pan , , and and cook cook until until they they start start to to become become firm firm and and are are reddish-pink reddish-pink and and juicy juicy in in the the center center , , about about 3 3 1/2 1/2 minutes minutes per per side side . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read 130 130 degrees degrees F F ( ( 54 54 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove the the steaks steaks to to platter platter , , and and cover cover tightly tightly with with foil foil . . Pour Pour the the beef beef broth broth into into the the skillet skillet , , and and use use a a whisk whisk to to stir stir the the broth broth and and scrape scrape up up any any dissolved dissolved brown brown flavor flavor bits bits from from the the skillet skillet . . Whisk Whisk in in the the cream cream , , and and simmer simmer the the sauce sauce until until it it 's 's reduced reduced and and thickened thickened , , 6 6 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the steaks steaks back back in in the the skillet skillet , , turn turn to to coat coat with with sauce sauce , , and and serve serve with with the the remaining remaining sauce sauce . 
2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 onion onion , , quartered quartered and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans cannellini cannellini beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 pound pound turkey turkey kielbasa kielbasa , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slices slices 1/3 1/3 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine | | Place Place the the chicken chicken into into the the bottom bottom of of a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Stir Stir together together the the onion onion , , garlic garlic , , parsley parsley , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cannellini cannellini beans beans , , and and turkey turkey kielbasa kielbasa in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Pour Pour the the mixture mixture over over the the chicken chicken in in the the slow slow cooker cooker , , and and pour pour the the wine wine over over all all the the ingredients ingredients . . Cover Cover , , set set the the cooker cooker to to Low Low , , and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken is is very very tender tender and and the the cassoulet cassoulet is is thickened thickened , , 5 5 to to 6 6 hours hours . 
1 bunch bunch fresh fresh asparagus asparagus spears spears , , trimmed trimmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried Herbes Herbes de de Provence Provence sea sea salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Toss Toss the the asparagus asparagus with with olive olive oil oil , , Herbes Herbes de de Provence Provence , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Spread Spread the the asparagus asparagus onto onto the the baking baking sheet sheet in in a a single single layer layer . . Roast Roast in in preheated preheated oven oven until until tender tender and and lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 4 4 whole whole boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast , , cubed cubed 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced ham ham | | In In a a 10 10 inch inch skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat cook cook the the chicken chicken breasts breasts in in the the butter butter for for 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until browned browned . . Remove Remove chicken chicken and and set set aside aside . . In In the the same same skillet skillet add add the the wine wine and and stir stir to to deglaze deglaze the the pan pan . . Add Add the the soup soup , , cheese cheese and and ham ham . . Heat Heat to to boiling boiling , , stirring stirring often often . . Return Return chicken chicken to to skillet skillet . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low . . Cover Cover and and cook cook for for 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes or or until until chicken chicken is is completely completely cooked cooked , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Serve Serve over over hot hot cooked cooked egg egg noodles noodles if if desired desired . 
6 bone-in bone-in , , skin-on skin-on chicken chicken thighs thighs 1 1 pinch pinch kosher kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces bacon bacon , , sliced sliced crosswise crosswise into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces 10 10 large large button button mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1/2 1/2 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 shallots shallots , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 6 6 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Season Season chicken chicken thighs thighs all all over over with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place bacon bacon in in a a large large , , oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , until until evenly evenly browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer bacon bacon with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to a a paper-towel paper-towel lined lined plate plate , , leaving leaving drippings drippings in in the the skillet skillet . . Increase Increase heat heat to to high high and and place place chicken chicken , , skin-side skin-side down down , , into into skillet skillet . . Cook Cook in in hot hot skillet skillet until until browned browned , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a plate plate ; ; drain drain and and discard discard all all but but 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon drippings drippings from from the the skillet skillet . . Lower Lower heat heat to to medium-high medium-high ; ; saute saute mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , and and shallots shallots with with a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until golden golden and and caramelized caramelized , , 7 7 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir flour flour and and butter butter into into vegetable vegetable mixture mixture until until completely completely incorporated incorporated , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour red red wine wine into into the the skillet skillet and and bring bring to to a a boil boil while while scraping scraping browned browned bits bits of of food food off off of of the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Stir Stir bacon bacon and and thyme thyme into into red red wine wine mixture mixture ; ; simmer simmer until until wine wine is is about about 1/3 1/3 reduced reduced , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour chicken chicken broth broth into into wine wine mixture mixture and and set set chicken chicken thighs thighs into into skillet skillet ; ; bring bring wine wine and and stock stock to to a a simmer simmer . . Cook Cook chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon pan pan juices juices over over the the chicken chicken and and continue continue cooking cooking until until no no longer longer pink pink at at the the bone bone and and the the juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes more more . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of the the thigh thigh , , near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to a a platter platter . . Place Place skillet skillet over over high high heat heat and and reduce reduce pan pan juices juices , , skimming skimming fat fat off off the the top top as as necessary necessary , , until until sauce sauce thickens thickens slightly slightly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; remove remove and and discard discard thyme thyme . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over chicken chicken . 
3 large large whole whole russet russet potatoes potatoes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons high-heat-resistant high-heat-resistant vegetable vegetable oil oil , , such such as as grapeseed grapeseed oil oil salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 4 4 sprigs sprigs thyme thyme , , plus plus more more for for garnish garnish 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth , , or or more more as as needed needed | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Cut Cut off off ends ends of of russet russet potatoes potatoes , , stand stand potatoes potatoes on on end end , , and and peel peel potatoes potatoes from from top top to to bottom bottom with with a a sharp sharp knife knife to to make make each each potato potato into into a a uniform uniform cylinder cylinder . . Cut Cut each each cylinder cylinder in in half half crosswise crosswise to to make make 6 6 potato potato cylinders cylinders about about 2 2 inches inches long long . . Place Place potatoes potatoes into into a a bowl bowl of of cold cold water water for for about about 5 5 minutes minutes to to remove remove starch starch from from outsides outsides ; ; pat pat dry dry with with paper paper towels towels . . Place Place a a heavy heavy oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet ( ( such such as as a a cast cast iron iron skillet skillet ) ) over over high high heat heat . . Pour Pour in in vegetable vegetable oil oil ; ; heat heat oil oil until until it it shimmers shimmers slightly slightly . . Place Place potato potato cylinders cylinders with with best-looking best-looking ends ends into into the the hot hot oil oil , , lower lower heat heat to to medium-high medium-high , , and and pan-fry pan-fry potatoes potatoes until until well-browned well-browned , , 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Flip Flip the the potatoes potatoes onto onto the the opposite opposite ends ends . . As As they they cook cook , , use use a a paper paper towel towel held held with with tongs tongs to to carefully carefully blot blot out out the the oil oil from from the the skillet skillet . . Add Add butter butter and and thyme thyme sprigs sprigs to to skillet skillet . . Pick Pick up up a a thyme thyme sprig sprig with with tongs tongs and and use use it it to to paint paint butter butter over over the the top top of of the the potatoes potatoes . . Cook Cook until until butter butter foams foams and and foam foam turns turns from from white white to to a a pale pale tan tan color color . . Season Season with with more more salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Pour Pour chicken chicken stock stock into into skillet skillet . . Transfer Transfer skillet skillet to to preheated preheated oven oven and and cook cook until until potatoes potatoes are are tender tender and and creamy creamy inside inside , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . If If potatoes potatoes are are n't n't tender tender , , add add 1/4 1/4 cup cup more more stock stock and and let let cook cook 10 10 more more minutes minutes . . Place Place potatoes potatoes on on a a serving serving platter platter and and spoon spoon thyme-scented thyme-scented butter butter remaining remaining in in skillet skillet over over potatoes potatoes . . Garnish Garnish with with thyme thyme sprigs sprigs . . Let Let cool cool about about 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
2/3 cup cup ketchup ketchup 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 small small onion onion , , quartered quartered 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons paprika paprika 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce | | Prepare Prepare the the dressing dressing by by combining combining the the ketchup ketchup , , sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , oil oil , , onion onion , , paprika paprika and and Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor . . Blend Blend until until the the onion onion is is well well chopped chopped . . Chill Chill and and serve serve . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups red red wine wine 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1/3 1/3 cup cup water water | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Season Season chicken chicken parts parts with with salt salt , , pepper pepper and and garlic garlic powder powder and and saute saute until until lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Place Place wine wine in in a a shallow shallow dish dish or or bowl bowl . . Dip Dip chicken chicken pieces pieces into into wine wine , , one one at at a a time time , , and and return return to to skillet skillet . . Add Add any any remaining remaining wine wine , , stock stock and and onions onions , , stir stir together together and and reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and cook cook for for 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together cornstarch cornstarch and and water water and and add add mixture mixture to to sauce sauce to to thicken thicken ; ; cook cook an an additional additional 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes and and serve serve . 
1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 cups cups milk milk 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks , , beaten beaten 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/2 1/2 cup cup shortening shortening 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 4 4 eggs eggs | | For For the the custard custard : : In In a a small small saucepan saucepan , , combine combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar , , 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons flour flour and and a a pinch pinch of of salt salt . . Stir Stir in in milk milk , , a a little little at at a a time time , , until until smooth smooth . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Boil Boil 60 60 seconds seconds , , then then pour pour a a small small amount amount of of hot hot liquid liquid into into the the 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks , , and and stir stir . . Then Then return return now now heated heated egg egg yolks yolks to to saucepan saucepan and and stir stir , , over over heat heat , , until until mixture mixture starts starts to to bubble bubble again again . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , add add vanilla vanilla . . Cover Cover and and chill chill in in refrigerator refrigerator . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . For For the the pastry pastry : : In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine shortening shortening and and water water and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Sift Sift together together 1 1 cup cup flour flour and and a a pinch pinch of of salt salt and and pour pour all all at at once once into into boiling boiling mixture mixture . . Stir Stir vigorously vigorously until until mixture mixture forms forms a a ball ball . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and add add eggs eggs , , one one at at a a time time , , stirring stirring vigorously vigorously after after each each addition addition . . Drop Drop by by spoonfuls spoonfuls onto onto baking baking sheet sheet , , or or pipe pipe into into desired desired shape shape . . Bake Bake 10 10 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and bake bake 25 25 minutes minutes more more , , or or until until golden golden . . Cool Cool completely completely , , split split , , fill fill with with custard custard , , and and replace replace tops tops . 
1 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons active active dry dry yeast yeast 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2/3 2/3 cup cup warm warm milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2/3 2/3 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter , , chilled chilled 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Combine Combine yeast yeast , , warm warm water water , , and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sugar sugar . . Allow Allow to to stand stand until until creamy creamy and and frothy frothy . . Measure Measure flour flour into into a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Dissolve Dissolve 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons sugar sugar and and salt salt in in warm warm milk milk . . Blend Blend into into flour flour along along with with yeast yeast and and oil oil . . Mix Mix well well ; ; knead knead until until smooth smooth . . Cover Cover , , and and let let rise rise until until over over triple triple in in volume volume . . Deflate Deflate gently gently , , and and let let rise rise again again until until doubled doubled . . Deflate Deflate and and chill chill 20 20 minutes minutes . . Massage Massage butter butter until until pliable pliable , , but but not not soft soft and and oily oily . . Pat Pat dough dough into into a a 14 14 x x 8 8 inch inch rectangle rectangle . . Smear Smear butter butter over over top top two two thirds thirds , , leaving leaving 1/4 1/4 inch inch margin margin all all around around . . Fold Fold unbuttered unbuttered third third over over middle middle third third , , and and buttered buttered top top third third down down over over that that . . Turn Turn 90 90 degrees degrees , , so so that that folds folds are are to to left left and and right right . . Roll Roll out out to to a a 14 14 x x 6 6 inch inch rectangle rectangle . . Fold Fold in in three three again again . . Sprinkle Sprinkle lightly lightly with with flour flour , , and and put put dough dough in in a a plastic plastic bag bag . . Refrigerate Refrigerate 2 2 hours hours . . Unwrap Unwrap , , sprinkle sprinkle with with flour flour , , and and deflate deflate gently gently . . Roll Roll to to a a 14 14 x x 6 6 inch inch rectangle rectangle , , and and fold fold again again . . Turn Turn 90 90 degrees degrees , , and and repeat repeat . . Wrap Wrap , , and and chill chill 2 2 hours hours . . To To shape shape , , roll roll dough dough out out to to a a 20 20 x x 5 5 inch inch rectangle rectangle . . Cut Cut in in half half crosswise crosswise , , and and chill chill half half while while shaping shaping the the other other half half . . Roll Roll out out to to a a 15 15 x x 5 5 inch inch rectangle rectangle . . Cut Cut into into three three 5 5 x x 5 5 inch inch squares squares . . Cut Cut each each square square in in half half diagonally diagonally . . Roll Roll each each triangle triangle lightly lightly to to elongate elongate the the point point , , and and make make it it 7 7 inches inches long long . . Grab Grab the the other other 2 2 points points , , and and stretch stretch them them out out slightly slightly as as you you roll roll it it up up . . Place Place on on a a baking baking sheet sheet , , curving curving slightly slightly . . Let Let shaped shaped croissants croissants rise rise until until puffy puffy and and light light . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , beat beat together together egg egg and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water . . Glaze Glaze croissants croissants with with egg egg wash wash . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated 475 475 degrees degrees F F ( ( 245 245 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven for for 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1/2 cup cup shortening shortening 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup boiling boiling water water 1 1 cup cup sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 4 4 eggs eggs | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine shortening shortening , , salt salt and and boiling boiling water water and and heat heat until until entire entire mixture mixture boils boils . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , add add flour flour all all at at once once and and stir stir vigorously vigorously until until mixture mixture forms forms a a ball ball . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and add add eggs eggs , , one one at at a a time time , , beating beating thoroughly thoroughly after after each each addition addition . . Continue Continue beating beating until until mixture mixture is is thick thick and and shiny shiny and and breaks breaks from from spoon spoon . . Pipe Pipe or or spoon spoon onto onto ungreased ungreased cookie cookie sheet sheet and and bake bake 20 20 minutes minutes , , reduce reduce heat heat to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and bake bake 20 20 minutes minutes more more , , or or until until golden golden and and sound sound hollow hollow when when tapped tapped . . Cool Cool and and fill fill . 
1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 egg egg 2 2 cups cups milk milk | | In In a a mixing mixing bowl bowl , , combine combine flour flour , , egg egg , , and and milk milk . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet or or crepe crepe pan pan over over a a medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Spray Spray the the pan pan with with non-stick non-stick cooking cooking spray spray . . Pour Pour about about 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of batter batter into into the the pan pan , , lift lift the the pan pan and and turn turn it it by by rotating rotating your your wrist wrist , , spreading spreading a a PAPER PAPER THIN THIN amount amount in in the the pan pan . . Flip Flip the the crepe crepe when when it it starts starts to to bubble bubble . . When When it it is is finished finished cooking cooking , , remove remove it it and and repeat repeat this this process process with with the the remaining remaining batter batter . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds chicken chicken breast breast tenderloins tenderloins or or strips strips salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pint pint heavy heavy cream cream | | Melt Melt half half of of the the butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Season Season chicken chicken tenders tenders with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , and and saute saute them them in in butter butter until until golden golden on on all all sides sides , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the remaining remaining butter butter , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook for for 5 5 more more minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the heavy heavy cream cream into into the the skillet skillet , , and and simmer simmer gently gently for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until the the sauce sauce has has thickened thickened and and chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through . . Best Best when when served served with with fresh fresh French French bread bread for for dipping dipping . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried tarragon tarragon 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried thyme thyme 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , blend blend Dijon Dijon mustard mustard and and honey honey . . Mix Mix in in the the tarragon tarragon , , basil basil , , thyme thyme , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place chicken chicken in in the the skillet skillet , , and and brush brush on on both both sides sides with with the the Dijon Dijon mustard mustard mixture mixture . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup wine wine around around the the chicken chicken . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , until until liquid liquid is is reduced reduced . . Pour Pour another another 1/4 1/4 cup cup wine wine around around the the chicken chicken , , and and continue continue to to cook cook about about 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , reserving reserving remaining remaining liquid liquid . . Mix Mix remaining remaining wine wine into into the the skillet skillet . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium medium , , and and scrape scrape up up browned browned bits bits . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until liquid liquid is is reduced reduced by by about about 1/3 1/3 . . Serve Serve as as a a sauce sauce over over the the chicken chicken . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons shallot shallot , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic ( ( optional optional ) ) 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 cups cups sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1/3 1/3 cup cup red red wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme , , or or to to taste taste salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold water water | | Melt Melt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and shallot shallot , , and and cook cook until until the the shallot shallot has has softened softened and and turned turned translucent translucent , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the remaining remaining 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of butter butter , , then then stir stir in in the the mushrooms mushrooms once once the the butter butter has has melted melted . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the mushrooms mushrooms until until they they begin begin to to soften soften , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the beef beef broth broth , , wine wine , , and and Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce ; ; season season with with the the bay bay leaf leaf and and thyme thyme , , and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Once Once simmering simmering , , season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , reduce reduce the the heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and continue continue to to cook cook , , uncovered uncovered until until the the sauce sauce reduces reduces slightly slightly , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Dissolve Dissolve the the cornstarch cornstarch in in the the cold cold water water , , and and stir stir into into the the simmering simmering sauce sauce until until thickened thickened . . Remove Remove the the bay bay leaf leaf before before serving serving . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 6 6 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 6 6 slices slices ham ham 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream | | Pound Pound chicken chicken breasts breasts if if they they are are too too thick thick . . Place Place a a cheese cheese and and ham ham slice slice on on each each breast breast within within 1/2 1/2 inch inch of of the the edges edges . . Fold Fold the the edges edges of of the the chicken chicken over over the the filling filling , , and and secure secure with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Mix Mix the the flour flour and and paprika paprika in in a a small small bowl bowl , , and and coat coat the the chicken chicken pieces pieces . . Heat Heat the the butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and cook cook the the chicken chicken until until browned browned on on all all sides sides . . Add Add the the wine wine and and bouillon bouillon . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove the the toothpicks toothpicks , , and and transfer transfer the the breasts breasts to to a a warm warm platter platter . . Blend Blend the the cornstarch cornstarch with with the the cream cream in in a a small small bowl bowl , , and and whisk whisk slowly slowly into into the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring until until thickened thickened , , and and pour pour over over the the chicken chicken . . Serve Serve warm warm . 
1 ( ( 2.2 2.2 pound pound ) ) wheel wheel Brie Brie cheese cheese 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground curry curry powder powder 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar mango mango chutney chutney 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped cashews cashews 1 1 French French baguette baguette , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Sprinkle Sprinkle curry curry powder powder over over top top and and sides sides of of Brie Brie ; ; rub rub the the curry curry powder powder into into the the rind rind to to thoroughly thoroughly coat coat the the surface surface . . Place Place the the Brie Brie wheel wheel in in a a large large pie pie plate plate or or oven oven proof proof dish dish . . Spread Spread a a generous generous layer layer of of chutney chutney over over the the top top , , and and evenly evenly sprinkle sprinkle with with cashews cashews . . Bake Bake 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until cashews cashews are are slightly slightly golden golden and and cheese cheese inside inside the the rind rind is is melted melted . . Serve Serve with with slices slices of of baguette baguette . 
5 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 quart quart milk milk 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Once Once melted melted , , stir stir in in the the flour flour until until smooth smooth . . Continue Continue stirring stirring as as the the flour flour cooks cooks to to a a light light , , golden golden , , sandy sandy color color , , about about 7 7 minutes minutes . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium-high medium-high and and slowly slowly whisk whisk in in milk milk until until thickened thickened by by the the roux roux . . Bring Bring to to a a gentle gentle simmer simmer , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and continue continue simmering simmering until until the the flour flour has has softened softened and and not not longer longer tastes tastes gritty gritty , , 10 10 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , then then season season with with salt salt and and nutmeg nutmeg . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 medium medium shallots shallots , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups water water 3 3 cups cups fresh fresh shelled shelled green green peas peas salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons whipping whipping cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Melt Melt the the butter butter in in a a heavy-bottomed heavy-bottomed saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook the the shallots shallots until until soft soft and and translucent translucent , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the water water and and peas peas , , season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Increase Increase the the heat heat to to medium-high medium-high , , bring bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the peas peas are are tender tender , , 12 12 to to 18 18 minutes minutes . . Puree Puree the the peas peas in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor in in batches batches . . Strain Strain back back into into the the saucepan saucepan , , stir stir in in the the cream cream if if using using , , and and reheat reheat . . Season Season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper before before serving serving . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 cups cups milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 eggs eggs | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , sift sift together together flour flour , , sugar sugar , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt . . Stir Stir in in the the remaining remaining ingredients ingredients ; ; mix mix until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat a a lightly lightly oiled oiled griddle griddle or or frying frying pan pan over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Pour Pour or or scoop scoop the the batter batter onto onto the the griddle griddle , , using using approximately approximately 1/4 1/4 cup cup for for each each crepe crepe . . Tilt Tilt the the pan pan with with a a circular circular motion motion so so that that the the batter batter coats coats the the surface surface evenly evenly . . Cook Cook the the crepe crepe for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes , , until until the the bottom bottom is is light light brown brown . . Loosen Loosen with with a a spatula spatula , , turn turn and and cook cook the the other other side side . . Stack Stack the the finished finished crepes crepes by by putting putting wax wax paper paper between between each each one one . . Keep Keep covered covered with with a a dry dry cloth cloth until until ready ready to to eat eat . 
2 2/3 2/3 cups cups confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 2/3 2/3 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 2 2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) squares squares unsweetened unsweetened chocolate chocolate , , melted melted 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , blend blend confectioners confectioners sugar sugar , , butter butter , , melted melted chocolate chocolate and and vanilla vanilla on on low low speed speed . . Increase Increase speed speed to to high high . . Gradually Gradually add add milk milk ; ; beat beat until until smooth smooth and and fluffy fluffy . 
1 pound pound onions onions , , sliced sliced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 slices slices French French bread bread , , toasted toasted 2/3 2/3 cup cup shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese | | Cook Cook and and stir stir onions onions in in vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a covered covered large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the beef beef broth broth , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce and and black black pepper pepper ; ; heat heat to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Place Place bread bread on on a a baking baking sheet sheet ; ; sprinkle sprinkle bread bread with with cheese cheese . . Broil Broil 4-to-5 4-to-5 inches inches from from heat heat for for about about 1 1 minute minute or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and golden golden . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into bowls bowls and and top top with with bread bread . 
1/2 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour 2 2 egg egg whites whites 1/2 1/2 cup cup skim skim milk milk 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup mixed mixed frozen frozen berries berries , , thawed thawed and and drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting | | Whisk Whisk together together the the wheat wheat flour flour , , egg egg whites whites , , milk milk , , salt salt , , and and oil oil in in a a large large bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Lightly Lightly coat coat a a skillet skillet with with cooking cooking spray spray and and place place over over medium medium heat heat . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of the the batter batter into into the the skillet skillet . . Tilt Tilt the the pan pan in in a a circular circular motion motion to to allow allow the the batter batter to to spread spread to to the the edges edges . . Cook Cook until until the the bottom bottom is is light light brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip the the crepe crepe and and place place 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the mixed mixed berries berries in in the the center center of of the the crepe crepe ; ; cook cook another another 2 2 minutes minutes . . Fold Fold the the crepe crepe in in half half and and remove remove with with a a spatula spatula to to a a serving serving plate plate . . Dust Dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and serve serve . 
1 cup cup light light beer beer or or dry dry white white wine wine 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano , , or or to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces Brie Brie cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Pour Pour the the beer beer or or wine wine into into a a glass glass baking baking dish dish large large enough enough to to lay lay out out the the chicken chicken . . Season Season the the chicken chicken with with salt salt , , pepper pepper and and oregano oregano on on both both sides sides , , and and place place in in the the dish dish . . Bake Bake for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until juices juices run run clear clear . . While While chicken chicken is is baking baking , , slice slice Brie Brie with with the the rind rind into into 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick slices slices . . When When chicken chicken is is done done , , place place slices slices of of Brie Brie over over the the top top . . Return Return to to the the oven oven for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Voila Voila , , chicken chicken with with Brie Brie sauce sauce is is complete complete ! 
1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1 1 cup cup sifted sifted all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 pint pint heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1/2 1/2 cup cup semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate chips chips | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In medium medium saucepan saucepan , , bring bring water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add butter butter and and stir stir as as it it melts melts , , then then return return to to a a boil boil . . Add Add flour flour and and salt salt all all at at once once and and stir stir vigorously vigorously until until mixture mixture forms forms a a ball ball . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and add add eggs eggs , , one one at at a a time time , , stirring stirring vigorously vigorously after after each each until until smooth smooth . . Drop Drop by by heaping heaping tablespoons tablespoons , , 3 3 inches inches apart apart , , on on a a cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Bake Bake 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven then then reduce reduce heat heat to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) and and bake bake 25 25 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove puffs puffs from from oven oven , , split split and and remove remove soft soft dough dough from from center center . . Turn Turn oven oven off off , , and and replace replace puffs puffs to to dry dry in in cooling cooling oven oven , , 20 20 minutes minutes more more . . Cool Cool completely completely on on wire wire rack rack . . In In medium medium bowl bowl , , whip whip cream cream with with electric electric mixer mixer until until stiff stiff peaks peaks form form . . Stir Stir in in vanilla vanilla and and sugar sugar . . Fill Fill puffs puffs with with whipped whipped cream cream . . Melt Melt chocolate chocolate chips chips in in microwave microwave or or slowly slowly over over low low heat heat . . Drizzle Drizzle melted melted chocolate chocolate over over tops tops of of cream cream puffs puffs . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
2 1/4 1/4 cups cups white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 6 6 eggs eggs 1 1 cup cup buttermilk buttermilk 1/2 1/2 cup cup margarine margarine , , melted melted 1 1 cup cup flaked flaked coconut coconut 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped pecans pecans 2 2 prepared prepared 8 8 inch inch pastry pastry shells shells | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the sugar sugar and and flour flour . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix the the eggs eggs with with a a wire wire whisk whisk . . Whisk Whisk flour flour mixture mixture into into eggs eggs , , until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in buttermilk buttermilk , , margarine margarine , , coconut coconut and and pecans pecans . . Pour Pour into into unbaked unbaked pie pie crusts crusts . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 45 45 minutes minutes . . If If making making a a 9 9 inch inch deep deep dish dish pie pie , , bake bake for for 1 1 hour hour . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 6 6 skinless skinless chicken chicken thighs thighs 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 3 3 medium medium tomatoes tomatoes , , sliced sliced 4 4 portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 sweet sweet onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/3 1/3 cup cup Burgundy Burgundy wine wine 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the chicken chicken thighs thighs , , crushed crushed garlic garlic , , and and Italian Italian seasoning seasoning . . Brown Brown the the chicken chicken thighs thighs on on both both sides sides , , then then add add the the tomatoes tomatoes and and portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Strain Strain off off about about half half of of the the liquid liquid from from the the skillet skillet , , and and pour pour in in the the Burgundy Burgundy wine wine . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer for for another another 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken , , tomatoes tomatoes and and mushrooms mushrooms to to a a 8 8 or or 9 9 inch inch square square baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover with with sliced sliced onion onion , , and and set set aside aside . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring the the liquid liquid remaining remaining in in the the skillet skillet to to the the boiling boiling point point over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Gently Gently whisk whisk in in the the heavy heavy cream cream and and Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat , , and and stir stir until until smooth smooth . . If If the the sauce sauce is is not not thick thick enough enough , , whisk whisk in in the the cornstarch cornstarch , , and and simmer simmer over over very very low low heat heat until until it it thickens thickens . . Pour Pour the the sauce sauce over over the the chicken chicken in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until onions onions are are tender tender . . Let Let rest rest for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 17.25 17.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen puff puff pastry pastry , , thawed thawed 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons chocolate chocolate hazelnut hazelnut spread spread 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all all fruit fruit raspberry raspberry jam jam 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Unfold Unfold the the puff puff pastry pastry sheets sheets on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface . . Cut Cut each each one one into into thirds thirds along along the the fold fold lines lines . . Roll Roll each each strip strip of of dough dough out out to to about about 16 16 inches inches long long , , and and cut cut strips strips into into thirds thirds . . Spread Spread some some of of the the hazelnut hazelnut spread spread onto onto one one half half of of each each rectangle rectangle to to within within 1/2 1/2 inch inch of of the the edge edge . . Spread Spread about about 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon of of the the raspberry raspberry jam jam over over the the hazelnut hazelnut spread spread . . Brush Brush the the edges edges with with egg egg , , and and fold fold over over the the other other side side to to enclose enclose the the filling filling . . Press Press the the edges edges firmly firmly to to seal seal . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining rectangles rectangles . . Use Use a a sharp sharp knife knife to to cut cut 5 5 slits slits across across the the top top of of each each pastry pastry , , and and place place them them on on baking baking sheets sheets , , spacing spacing 2 2 inches inches apart apart . . Bake Bake for for 18 18 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . . Cool Cool on on racks racks . . Dust Dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar when when cooled cooled if if desired desired . 
For the the Poolish Poolish : : 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon instant instant yeast yeast 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 3/4 3/4 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour For For the the Dough Dough : : 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups warm warm water water 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon instant instant yeast yeast 6 6 cups cups unbleached unbleached bread bread flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon kosher kosher salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornmeal cornmeal for for dusting dusting | | To To make make the the sponge sponge , , whisk whisk the the 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon yeast yeast in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup warm warm water water . . Stir Stir in in the the whole whole wheat wheat flour flour until until the the mixture mixture resembles resembles a a thick thick batter batter . . Beat Beat for for about about 100 100 strokes strokes to to form form longs longs strands strands of of gluten gluten . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let sit sit at at room room temperature temperature for for 2 2 to to 8 8 hours hours ( ( longer longer is is better better for for flavor flavor development development ) ) . . You You can can also also let let the the poolish poolish ripen ripen in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 12 12 to to 15 15 hours hours , , bringing bringing it it back back to to room room temperature temperature before before proceeding proceeding with with the the recipe recipe . . When When the the poolish poolish is is ready ready , , it it will will be be bubbly bubbly and and loose loose , , with with a a yeasty yeasty , , sour sour aroma aroma . . Scrape Scrape the the poolish poolish into into a a bowl bowl and and stir stir in in the the 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water and and the the remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon yeast yeast . . Stir Stir well well to to combine combine . . Add Add the the bread bread flour flour 1 1 cup cup at at a a time time , , mixing mixing well well after after each each addition addition , , until until the the dough dough becomes becomes too too difficult difficult to to stir stir . . Transfer Transfer the the dough dough to to a a floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead for for 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes , , adding adding more more flour flour only only when when the the dough dough becomes becomes too too sticky sticky to to handle handle . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the salt salt over over the the dough dough and and knead knead it it for for an an additional additional 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . The The dough dough should should have have a a smooth smooth surface surface and and spring spring back back to to the the touch touch . . Shape Shape the the dough dough into into a a round round and and cover cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the dough dough in in an an oiled oiled bowl bowl , , turning turning to to coat coat the the surface surface of of the the dough dough with with oil oil . . Cover Cover the the dough dough with with a a damp damp cloth cloth and and let let it it rise rise at at room room temperature temperature until until doubled doubled in in size size , , about about 2 2 to to 3 3 hours hours . . Deflate Deflate the the dough dough and and cut cut it it into into two two pieces pieces . . Shape Shape the the dough dough into into two two rounds rounds , , cover cover them them with with plastic plastic or or a a damp damp cloth cloth , , and and allow allow the the dough dough to to rest rest for for 30 30 minutes minutes at at room room temperature temperature . . Shape Shape the the dough dough into into baguettes baguettes . . Place Place a a heavily heavily floured floured cloth cloth on on a a baking baking sheet sheet , , arranging arranging a a fold fold down down the the center center to to separate separate the the loaves loaves . . Place Place the the loaves loaves , , seam-side seam-side up up , , on on the the floured floured cloth cloth . . Dust Dust the the tops tops of of the the loaves loaves with with flour flour , , cover cover with with a a damp damp towel towel , , and and let let rise rise until until doubled doubled in in bulk bulk again again , , about about two two hours hours . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Sprinkle Sprinkle a a baking baking sheet sheet with with cornmeal cornmeal . . Gently Gently transfer transfer the the risen risen loaves loaves to to the the baking baking sheet sheet , , placing placing them them seam-side seam-side down down on on the the cornmeal cornmeal . . Make Make several several diagonal diagonal slashes slashes in in the the loaf loaf with with a a serrated serrated knife knife or or razor razor blade blade . . Immediately Immediately place place the the scored scored loaves loaves in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Bake Bake the the bread bread until until the the loaves loaves are are golden golden brown brown , , about about 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool the the loaves loaves on on wire wire racks racks . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 4 4 large large onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 6 6 slices slices French French bread bread 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat , , melt melt butter butter with with olive olive oil oil . . Cook Cook onions onions in in mixture mixture , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , until until very very soft soft , , translucent translucent and and brown brown on on the the edges edges . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the flour flour over over the the onions onions and and stir stir to to combine combine . . Pour Pour in in beef beef broth broth , , wine wine and and water water with with bay bay leaves leaves . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer , , uncovered uncovered , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven broiler broiler . . Toast Toast the the bread bread slices slices . . Ladle Ladle the the soup soup into into 6 6 ovenproof ovenproof bowls bowls and and place place the the bowls bowls on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place a a toasted toasted slice slice of of bread bread over over each each bowl bowl and and top top with with Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Place Place bowls bowls under under broiler broiler until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . 
1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) round round Brie Brie cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can refrigerated refrigerated crescent crescent roll roll dough dough 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups honey honey 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups pecan pecan halves halves | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Unwrap Unwrap the the wheel wheel of of Brie Brie , , and and crescent crescent rolls rolls . . Unroll Unroll the the crescent crescent roll roll dough dough , , and and wrap wrap around around the the Brie Brie . . Press Press seams seams together together to to seal seal in in the the cheese cheese . . Place Place in in a a 9x9 9x9 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle pecan pecan halves halves over over the the top top , , and and drizzle drizzle honey honey over over the the whole whole thing thing . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until golden golden brown brown and and cheese cheese is is soft soft . . Serve Serve with with apple apple slices slices or or cornbread cornbread crackers crackers . 
1/3 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 3 3 eggs eggs 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks 3/4 3/4 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 3 3 1/3 1/3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 egg egg white white 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Place Place the the first first seven seven ingredients ingredients in in bread bread machine machine in in order order suggested suggested by by your your manufacturer manufacturer . . Select Select dough dough cycle cycle . . Turn Turn finished finished dough dough out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured board board and and knead knead 5 5 to to 10 10 times times . . Separate Separate into into 2 2 or or 3 3 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll with with hands hands into into strips strips . . Braid Braid or or twist twist strips strips together together . . Place Place onto onto a a parchment parchment lined lined baking baking sheet sheet . . Set Set aside aside to to rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in size size . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Whisk Whisk together together 1 1 egg egg white white and and the the water water . . Brush Brush onto onto the the top top of of the the loaf loaf . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until deep deep golden golden brown brown , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch thickness thickness garlic garlic salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 pound pound thinly thinly sliced sliced ham ham 4 4 slices slices Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 8 8 slices slices bacon bacon 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Sprinkle Sprinkle each each flattened flattened breast breast with with garlic garlic salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste on on both both sides sides . . Lay Lay a a slice slice of of ham ham onto onto each each breast breast , , then then a a slice slice of of Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Roll Roll each each breast breast up up like like a a cinnamon cinnamon roll roll . . Secure Secure with with a a toothpick toothpick if if necessary necessary . . Wrap Wrap a a piece piece of of bacon bacon loosely loosely around around each each roll roll . . Place Place the the rolled rolled breasts breasts in in a a 2 2 quart quart glass glass baking baking dish dish and and pour pour in in chicken chicken broth broth . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until the the juices juices run run clear clear . . Broil Broil for for a a few few minutes minutes before before serving serving to to crisp crisp up up the the bacon bacon . 
1/2 cup cup butter butter 5 5 pounds pounds onions onions , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons paprika paprika 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 quarts quarts beef beef broth broth 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 dash dash browning browning sauce sauce 1 1 loaf loaf French French bread bread , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch slices slices 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Swiss Swiss cheese cheese | | Melt Melt the the butter butter in in a a large large pot pot over over low low heat heat . . Add Add the the onions onions ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally for for 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . When When the the onions onions are are ready ready , , add add the the pepper pepper , , salt salt , , bay bay leaf leaf and and flour flour . . Stir Stir over over low low heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in the the beef beef broth broth and and white white wine wine . . Simmer Simmer for for 2 2 hours hours over over low low heat heat . . Adjust Adjust the the coloring coloring to to a a rich rich brown brown with with the the browning browning sauce sauce . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust salt salt if if needed needed . . Preheat Preheat your your oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Ladle Ladle the the soup soup into into oven-proof oven-proof bowls bowls , , and and place place them them on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Float Float a a slice slice of of French French bread bread in in each each bowl bowl , , and and top top with with some some Swiss Swiss cheese cheese . . Broil Broil until until cheese cheese is is browned browned . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1/2 cup cup semi-sweet semi-sweet chocolate chocolate chips chips 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 5 5 egg egg yolks yolks 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the chocolate chocolate chips chips into into each each of of four four 6 6 ounce ounce ramekins ramekins . . Place Place them them in in the the microwave microwave , , and and heat heat on on full full power power for for 30 30 second second intervals intervals . . Stir Stir , , and and continue continue heating heating until until chocolate chocolate has has melted melted . . Spread Spread to to cover cover the the sides sides and and bottom bottom of of each each ramekin ramekin . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a saucepan saucepan , , whisk whisk together together the the cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar , , and and salt salt . . Set Set over over medium medium heat heat , , and and warm warm until until steam steam rises rises from from the the surface surface . . Then Then in in a a separate separate bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the egg egg yolks yolks and and vanilla vanilla . . When When the the cream cream is is hot hot , , ladle ladle a a little little bit bit into into the the egg egg yolks yolks while while whisking whisking quickly quickly . . Ladle Ladle in in a a bit bit more more to to bring bring the the yolks yolks up up to to a a high high temperature temperature without without scrambling scrambling them them . . Whisk Whisk the the yolk yolk mixture mixture into into the the rest rest of of the the cream cream . . Ladle Ladle into into the the chocolate chocolate lined lined ramekins ramekins . . Place Place a a towel towel in in the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish , , and and place place the the filled filled ramekins ramekins on on top top of of the the towel towel . . Place Place in in the the oven oven , , and and pour pour boiling boiling water water carefully carefully into into the the baking baking dish dish until until it it comes comes half half way way up up the the sides sides of of the the ramekins ramekins . . Cover Cover the the dish dish loosely loosely with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , just just until until the the custard custard is is set set . . Remove Remove ramekins ramekins from from the the dish dish , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . . Before Before serving serving , , sprinkle sprinkle 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of sugar sugar over over the the top top of of each each creme creme brulee brulee . . Use Use a a kitchen kitchen torch torch or or your your oven oven 's 's broiler broiler to to caramelize caramelize the the sugar sugar . . It It may may take take 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes in in the the broiler broiler . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package pasta pasta , , your your choice choice of of shape shape 1 1 large large white white onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped garlic garlic 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 2 2 cups cups creme creme fraiche fraiche 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese for for topping topping 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream | | In In a a large large skillet skillet , , saute saute chicken chicken breasts breasts in in oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Once Once breasts breasts are are browned browned , , add add white white wine wine and and salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Let Let simmer simmer for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , To To Cook Cook Pasta Pasta : : Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta to to boiling boiling water water , , cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente . . Drain Drain . . When When chicken chicken is is cooked cooked , , remove remove from from skillet skillet and and cube cube . . Set Set aside aside . . Saute Saute onion onion and and garlic garlic in in remaining remaining juices juices . . Once Once onions onions are are translucent translucent , , add add mushrooms mushrooms and and saute saute until until soft soft . . Add Add cubed cubed chicken chicken , , creme creme fraiche fraiche and and sour sour cream cream ( ( to to desired desired thickness thickness ) ) . . Stir Stir all all together together and and heat heat through through . . Put Put hot hot cooked cooked pasta pasta on on plate plate , , top top with with chicken chicken and and sauce sauce and and sprinkle sprinkle with with grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . 
1 clove clove garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups whole whole , , pitted pitted kalamata kalamata olives olives 1 1 ( ( 2 2 ounce ounce ) ) can can anchovy anchovy fillets fillets , , rinsed rinsed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh rosemary rosemary 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons lemon lemon juice juice 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil | | Combine Combine garlic garlic , , olives olives , , anchovies anchovies , , capers capers , , thyme thyme , , rosemary rosemary and and lemon lemon juice juice in in an an electric electric blender blender . . Slowly Slowly drip drip the the olive olive oil oil into into the the blender blender while while you you are are blending blending the the ingredients ingredients together together . . Blend Blend until until a a paste paste is is formed formed . 
1 quart quart vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 ( ( 10.25 10.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef gravy gravy 5 5 medium medium potatoes potatoes , , cut cut into into fries fries 2 2 cups cups cheese cheese curds curds | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep deep fryer fryer or or deep deep heavy heavy skillet skillet to to 365 365 degrees degrees F F ( ( 185 185 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . While While the the oil oil is is heating heating , , you you can can begin begin to to warm warm your your gravy gravy . . Place Place the the fries fries into into the the hot hot oil oil , , and and cook cook until until light light brown brown , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Make Make the the fries fries in in batches batches if if necessary necessary to to allow allow them them room room to to move move a a little little in in the the oil oil . . Remove Remove to to a a paper paper towel towel lined lined plate plate to to drain drain . . Place Place the the fries fries on on a a serving serving platter platter , , and and sprinkle sprinkle the the cheese cheese over over them them . . Ladle Ladle gravy gravy over over the the fries fries and and cheese cheese , , and and serve serve immediately immediately . 
6 cups cups tart tart apples apples - - peeled peeled , , cored cored and and sliced sliced 1 1 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 3/4 3/4 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup biscuit biscuit mix mix ( ( e.g e.g . . Bisquick Bisquick ) ) 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 cup cup biscuit biscuit mix mix ( ( e.g e.g . . Bisquick Bisquick ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped walnuts walnuts 1/3 1/3 cup cup light light brown brown sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 10 10 inch inch pie pie pan pan . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix apples apples , , cinnamon cinnamon and and nutmeg nutmeg together together ; ; turn turn mixture mixture into into pan pan . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , beat beat sugar sugar , , milk milk , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup biscuit biscuit mix mix , , eggs eggs and and butter butter until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour over over apples apples . . To To Make Make Streusel Streusel : : In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together 1 1 cup cup biscuit biscuit mix mix , , nuts nuts , , brown brown sugar sugar and and butter butter ; ; mix mix until until crumbly crumbly . . Sprinkle Sprinkle streusel streusel over over top top of of pie pie . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 55 55 to to 60 60 minutes minutes ; ; bake bake until until knife knife inserted inserted in in center center of of pie pie comes comes out out clean clean . 
1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter , , softened softened 17 17 tablespoons tablespoons warm warm water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried rosemary rosemary , , crushed crushed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic | | Place Place ingredients ingredients in in the the pan pan of of the the bread bread machine machine in in the the order order recommended recommended by by the the manufacturer manufacturer . . Select Select cycle cycle ; ; press press Start Start . 
1 cup cup chocolate chocolate hazelnut hazelnut spread spread 4 4 crepes crepes 4 4 bananas bananas , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can pressurized pressurized whipped whipped cream cream | | Spread Spread 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of chocolate chocolate hazelnut hazelnut spread spread onto onto each each crepe crepe . . Arrange Arrange 1 1 sliced sliced banana banana down down the the center center of of each each one one . . Roll Roll up up , , and and place place in in a a warm warm skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Let Let them them warm warm up up for for about about 90 90 seconds seconds . . Transfer Transfer to to plates plates , , and and serve serve topped topped with with whipped whipped cream cream . 
1/4 teaspoon teaspoon softened softened butter butter 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons heavy heavy cream cream 2 2 eggs eggs salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh chives chives 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Rub Rub the the inside inside of of a a 6 6 ounce ounce ramekin ramekin with with butter butter . . Pour Pour cream cream into into the the ramekin ramekin , , then then crack crack the the eggs eggs on on top top of of the the cream cream without without breaking breaking the the yolks yolks . . Use Use a a spoon spoon to to position position the the yolks yolks towards towards the the center center of of the the ramekin ramekin , , then then sprinkle sprinkle with with salt salt , , pepper pepper , , chives chives , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until the the whites whites of of the the eggs eggs have have set set and and the the yolks yolks are are still still soft soft , , 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven , , and and allow allow to to set set for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon beef beef demi demi glace glace 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons bacon bacon drippings drippings 2 2 pounds pounds beef beef round round , , cut cut into into 3 3 inch inch pieces pieces 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sherry sherry wine wine 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chopped chopped onions onions 1 1 cup cup Burgundy Burgundy wine wine Herb Herb Bouquet Bouquet ( ( Bouquet Bouquet Garni Garni ) ) 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh parsley parsley 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh rosemary rosemary 1 1 sprig sprig fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 12 12 fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley , , for for garnish garnish | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together beef beef broth broth , , flour flour , , tomato tomato paste paste and and demi demi glace glace ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat bacon bacon drippings drippings in in a a large large heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add beef beef , , and and cook cook until until brown brown on on all all sides sides . . Remove Remove beef beef from from skillet skillet ; ; set set aside aside . . Stir Stir the the sherry sherry wine wine into into the the skillet skillet . . Add Add the the onions onions , , and and cook cook about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Blend Blend in in the the tomato tomato paste paste mixture mixture , , and and bring bring to to a a rapid rapid boil boil , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Stir Stir in in Burgundy Burgundy wine wine . . Make Make the the herb herb bouquet bouquet : : Place Place parsley parsley , , rosemary rosemary , , thyme thyme , , and and bay bay leaf leaf in in a a square square of of cheesecloth cheesecloth . . Place Place herb herb bouquet bouquet in in sauce sauce . . Return Return beef beef to to skillet skillet . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat for for about about 3 3 hours hours , , or or until until beef beef is is tender tender . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a small small skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute mushrooms mushrooms until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Add Add to to meat meat in in the the skillet skillet , , and and continue continue cooking cooking 15 15 minutes minutes . . Discard Discard bouquet bouquet garni garni . . Serve Serve in in a a casserole casserole dish dish , , sprinkled sprinkled with with parsley parsley . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) ( ( 1 1 inch inch thick thick ) ) filet filet mignon mignon steaks steaks 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sea sea salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 large large shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 12 12 ounces ounces sliced sliced fresh fresh white white mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 cup cup Cabernet Cabernet Sauvignon Sauvignon or or other other dry dry red red wine wine 1/2 1/2 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the filets filets with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , gently gently place place them them into into the the hot hot skillet skillet , , and and sear sear until until well-browned well-browned on on each each side side , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Remove Remove the the steaks steaks to to a a platter platter , , tent tent with with aluminum aluminum foil foil , , and and keep keep warm warm . . Turn Turn the the heat heat down down to to medium medium , , and and melt melt the the butter butter . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the shallot shallot and and mushrooms mushrooms in in the the butter butter until until the the mushrooms mushrooms begin begin to to give give off off their their liquid liquid and and the the shallots shallots are are translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the wine wine , , beef beef broth broth , , and and thyme thyme , , and and simmer simmer the the sauce sauce until until it it begins begins to to reduce reduce , , 6 6 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Return Return the the steaks steaks to to the the sauce sauce , , and and simmer simmer briefly briefly until until they they start start to to become become firm firm and and are are reddish-pink reddish-pink and and juicy juicy in in the the center center , , about about 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side ( ( for for medium-rare medium-rare . . ) ) An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read 130 130 degrees degrees F F ( ( 54 54 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove the the steaks steaks to to serving serving dishes dishes . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir the the cornstarch cornstarch and and water water until until it it forms forms a a smooth smooth paste paste . . Stir Stir the the cornstarch cornstarch mixture mixture into into the the pan pan sauce sauce , , and and cook cook and and stir stir until until thickened thickened , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Top Top each each serving serving with with mushroom-wine mushroom-wine sauce sauce to to serve serve . 
4 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground ginger ginger 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 15 15 slices slices whole whole wheat wheat bread bread 1 1 cup cup butter butter , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar for for dusting dusting | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the eggs eggs , , cinnamon cinnamon , , nutmeg nutmeg , , ginger ginger , , and and cloves cloves . . Melt Melt about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Dip Dip slices slices of of bread bread one one at at a a time time into into the the egg egg , , quickly quickly coating coating each each side side but but not not fully fully saturating saturating the the bread bread . . Fry Fry a a few few slices slices at at a a time time in in the the buttered buttered skillet skillet until until golden golden brown brown on on each each side side . . Add Add more more butter butter to to the the skillet skillet and and continue continue with with remaining remaining slices slices . . Melt Melt remaining remaining butter butter in in the the microwave microwave at at 15 15 second second intervals intervals . . Place Place finished finished toast toast onto onto plates plates , , drizzle drizzle with with melted melted butter butter , , and and dust dust with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . 
1/2 cup cup soy soy milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup melted melted soy soy margarine margarine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon turbinado turbinado sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons maple maple syrup syrup 1 1 cup cup unbleached unbleached all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | In In a a large large mixing mixing bowl bowl , , blend blend soy soy milk milk , , water water , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine , , sugar sugar , , syrup syrup , , flour flour , , and and salt salt . . Cover Cover and and chill chill the the mixture mixture for for 2 2 hours hours . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 5 5 to to 6 6 inch inch skillet skillet with with some some soy soy margarine margarine . . Heat Heat the the skillet skillet until until hot hot . . Pour Pour approximately approximately 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons batter batter into into the the skillet skillet . . Swirl Swirl to to make make the the batter batter cover cover the the skillet skillet 's 's bottom bottom . . Cook Cook until until golden golden , , flip flip and and cook cook on on opposite opposite side side . 
