1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 carrot carrot , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 stalk stalk celery celery , , finely finely chopped chopped 3/4 3/4 pound pound mushrooms mushrooms , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice 2 2 sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/3 1/3 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 8 8 cups cups spinach spinach , , rinsed rinsed 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Cook Cook lasagna lasagna in in boiling boiling salted salted water water in in a a large large pot pot until until al al dente dente . . Drain Drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , heat heat one one half half tablespoon tablespoon of of olive olive oil oil in in a a Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the chopped chopped onion onion , , celery celery , , and and carrots carrots , , stir stir and and cook cook until until onions onions have have softened softened . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms and and garlic garlic and and continue continue to to cook cook until until the the mushrooms mushrooms have have released released their their liquid liquid , , 2 2 or or 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add wine wine and and cook cook until until most most of of the the liquid liquid has has evaporated evaporated . . Stir Stir in in chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes ( ( include include liquid liquid ) ) , , sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , and and thyme thyme . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer until until thick thick . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . To To make make the the white white sauce sauce , , heat heat remaining remaining oil oil in in a a heavy heavy pan pan over over low low heat heat . . Add Add flour flour , , whisk whisk constantly constantly until until the the flour flour begins begins to to turn turn a a light light brown brown . . Remove Remove pan pan from from heat heat and and whisk whisk in in cream cream . . Season Season with with nutmeg nutmeg and and a a pinch pinch of of salt salt . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and set set aside aside . . To To assemble assemble , , spread spread 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the mushroom mushroom sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a casserole casserole dish dish , , add add one one layer layer of of noodles noodles , , then then another another 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of mushroom mushroom sauce sauce . . Arrange Arrange a a single single layer layer of of the the fresh fresh spinach spinach leaves leaves over over the the sauce sauce and and drizzle drizzle them them with with 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of the the white white sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese over over the the spinach spinach and and top top with with another another layer layer of of the the noodles noodles . . Repeat Repeat 5 5 times times . . In In a a preheated preheated 375 375 degree degree F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven bake bake for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve warm warm . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds coarsely coarsely ground ground pork pork 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage without without fennel fennel , , casings casings removed removed 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef sirloin sirloin 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef chuck chuck 1/2 1/2 loaf loaf day-old day-old ( ( hard hard ) ) Italian Italian bread bread , , torn torn into into chunks chunks 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) carton carton low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 whole whole head head garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup packed packed fresh fresh Italian Italian parsley parsley leaves leaves 4 4 large large eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 8 8 ounces ounces Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese ( ( such such as as Locatelli速 Locatelli速 ) ) , , grated grated 1/4 1/4 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter | | Combine Combine ground ground pork pork , , Italian Italian sausage sausage , , ground ground sirloin sirloin , , and and ground ground chuck chuck in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix them them with with your your hands hands until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Soak Soak bread bread chunks chunks in in chicken chicken broth broth in in a a bowl bowl until until completely completely soft soft . . Combine Combine garlic garlic and and parsley parsley in in a a mini mini chopper chopper or or food food processor processor and and grind grind to to a a fine fine paste paste . . Squeeze Squeeze the the excess excess broth broth out out of of the the bread bread , , reserving reserving the the broth broth in in a a bowl bowl , , and and add add the the bread bread to to the the meats meats along along with with the the garlic garlic and and parsley parsley paste paste . . Gently Gently mix mix in in beaten beaten eggs eggs and and grated grated Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese with with your your hands hands until until fully fully incorporated incorporated into into the the meat meat mixture mixture . . If If the the mixture mixture seems seems dry dry , , pour pour in in some some of of the the reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth . . Pinch Pinch off off golf golf ball-sized ball-sized pieces pieces of of the the meat meat mixture mixture and and roll roll them them into into meatballs meatballs , , taking taking care care not not to to pack pack them them too too tightly tightly , , and and set set them them on on a a baking baking tray tray . . Depending Depending on on how how big big you you make make them them , , you you should should end end up up with with about about 30 30 meatballs meatballs . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil and and butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Working Working in in two two or or three three batches batches , , brown brown the the meatballs meatballs on on all all sides sides and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . If If you you 're 're adding adding them them to to a a pot pot of of sauce sauce , , you you may may undercook undercook them them slightly slightly , , as as they they will will finish finish cooking cooking in in the the sauce sauce . 
1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour for for coating coating 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1/2 1/2 cup cup Marsala Marsala wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup cooking cooking sherry sherry | | In In a a shallow shallow dish dish or or bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the flour flour , , salt salt , , pepper pepper and and oregano oregano . . Coat Coat chicken chicken pieces pieces in in flour flour mixture mixture . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , melt melt butter butter in in oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place chicken chicken in in the the pan pan , , and and lightly lightly brown brown . . Turn Turn over over chicken chicken pieces pieces , , and and add add mushrooms mushrooms . . Pour Pour in in wine wine and and sherry sherry . . Cover Cover skillet skillet ; ; simmer simmer chicken chicken 10 10 minutes minutes , , turning turning once once , , until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
4 slices slices bacon bacon 3 3 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans green green beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can Italian-style Italian-style diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried basil basil 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 cup cup brown brown sugar sugar | | Cook Cook bacon bacon in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until crisp crisp . . Remove Remove from from the the pan pan to to drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Reserve Reserve the the grease grease in in the the skillet skillet and and add add the the onions onions ; ; cook cook and and stir stir over over medium medium heat heat until until softened softened . . Add Add garlic garlic and and cook cook for for about about 30 30 seconds seconds more more . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat . . In In a a saucepan saucepan , , combine combine the the green green beans beans , , tomatoes tomatoes , , basil basil , , oregano oregano and and brown brown sugar sugar . . Crumble Crumble in in the the bacon bacon and and add add the the onion onion and and garlic garlic from from the the skillet skillet . . Warm Warm over over medium medium heat heat until until heated heated through through , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds coarsely coarsely ground ground pork pork 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage without without fennel fennel , , casings casings removed removed 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef sirloin sirloin 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef chuck chuck 1/2 1/2 loaf loaf day-old day-old ( ( hard hard ) ) Italian Italian bread bread , , torn torn into into chunks chunks 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) carton carton low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 whole whole head head garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup packed packed fresh fresh Italian Italian parsley parsley leaves leaves 4 4 large large eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 8 8 ounces ounces Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese ( ( such such as as Locatelli速 Locatelli速 ) ) , , grated grated 1/4 1/4 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons unsalted unsalted butter butter | | Combine Combine ground ground pork pork , , Italian Italian sausage sausage , , ground ground sirloin sirloin , , and and ground ground chuck chuck in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix them them with with your your hands hands until until thoroughly thoroughly combined combined . . Soak Soak bread bread chunks chunks in in chicken chicken broth broth in in a a bowl bowl until until completely completely soft soft . . Combine Combine garlic garlic and and parsley parsley in in a a mini mini chopper chopper or or food food processor processor and and grind grind to to a a fine fine paste paste . . Squeeze Squeeze the the excess excess broth broth out out of of the the bread bread , , reserving reserving the the broth broth in in a a bowl bowl , , and and add add the the bread bread to to the the meats meats along along with with the the garlic garlic and and parsley parsley paste paste . . Gently Gently mix mix in in beaten beaten eggs eggs and and grated grated Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese with with your your hands hands until until fully fully incorporated incorporated into into the the meat meat mixture mixture . . If If the the mixture mixture seems seems dry dry , , pour pour in in some some of of the the reserved reserved chicken chicken broth broth . . Pinch Pinch off off golf golf ball-sized ball-sized pieces pieces of of the the meat meat mixture mixture and and roll roll them them into into meatballs meatballs , , taking taking care care not not to to pack pack them them too too tightly tightly , , and and set set them them on on a a baking baking tray tray . . Depending Depending on on how how big big you you make make them them , , you you should should end end up up with with about about 30 30 meatballs meatballs . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil and and butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Working Working in in two two or or three three batches batches , , brown brown the the meatballs meatballs on on all all sides sides and and drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . If If you you 're 're adding adding them them to to a a pot pot of of sauce sauce , , you you may may undercook undercook them them slightly slightly , , as as they they will will finish finish cooking cooking in in the the sauce sauce . 
6 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons semolina semolina flour flour 3 3 large large eggs eggs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 ounce ounce grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 ounce ounce grated grated pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 pinch pinch freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 pinch pinch red red pepper pepper flakes flakes | | Bring Bring broth broth to to a a simmer simmer in in a a pot pot over over high high heat heat . . Taste Taste broth broth and and adjust adjust salt salt and and pepper pepper as as needed needed . . Whisk Whisk eggs eggs , , parsley parsley , , semolina semolina flour flour , , grated grated Parmigiano Parmigiano Reggiano Reggiano and and pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheeses cheeses , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and nutmeg nutmeg together together in in a a bowl bowl until until well well blended blended . . While While stirring stirring the the simmering simmering broth broth , , slowly slowly pour pour egg egg mixture mixture into into the the broth broth . . Bring Bring mixture mixture back back up up to to a a simmer simmer . . The The liquid liquid will will be be slightly slightly cloudy cloudy initially initially and and clear clear as as broth broth heats heats . . Serve Serve in in bowls bowls ; ; garnish garnish with with a a drizzle drizzle of of olive olive oil oil and and a a pinch pinch of of red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . 
Gnocchi : : 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed Sauce Sauce : : 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 dash dash crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 6 6 basil basil leaves leaves , , finely finely shredded shredded Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks | | Stir Stir together together the the ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , eggs eggs , , Parmesan Parmesan Cheese Cheese , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic powder powder in in a a large large bowl bowl until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 cup cup of of flour flour . . Add Add additional additional flour flour if if needed needed to to form form a a soft soft dough dough . . Divide Divide the the dough dough into into 3 3 or or 4 4 pieces pieces , , and and roll roll into into 1/2-inch-thick 1/2-inch-thick ropes ropes on on a a floured floured surface surface . . Cut Cut each each rope rope into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces , , and and place place on on a a lightly lightly floured floured baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place in in the the refrigerator refrigerator until until ready ready to to use use . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until softened softened and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and cook cook for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in shredded shredded basil basil and and season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . While While sauce sauce is is simmering simmering , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Boil Boil the the gnocchi gnocchi until until they they float float to to the the surface surface , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then drain drain . . To To assemble assemble the the dish dish , , stir stir the the cubed cubed mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese into into the the sauce sauce and and allow allow the the heat heat of of the the sauce sauce to to soften soften , , but but not not melt melt the the cheese cheese . . Place Place gnocchi gnocchi into into a a serving serving bowl bowl , , and and spoon spoon sauce sauce overtop overtop . 
6 egg egg yolks yolks 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2/3 2/3 cup cup milk milk 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 pound pound mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup strong strong brewed brewed coffee coffee , , room room temperature temperature 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rum rum 2 2 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages ladyfinger ladyfinger cookies cookies 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , whisk whisk together together egg egg yolks yolks and and sugar sugar until until well well blended blended . . Whisk Whisk in in milk milk and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until mixture mixture boils boils . . Boil Boil gently gently for for 1 1 minute minute , , remove remove from from heat heat and and allow allow to to cool cool slightly slightly . . Cover Cover tightly tightly and and chill chill in in refrigerator refrigerator 1 1 hour hour . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , beat beat cream cream with with vanilla vanilla until until stiff stiff peaks peaks form form . . Whisk Whisk mascarpone mascarpone into into yolk yolk mixture mixture until until smooth smooth . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine coffee coffee and and rum rum . . Split Split ladyfingers ladyfingers in in half half lengthwise lengthwise and and drizzle drizzle with with coffee coffee mixture mixture . . Arrange Arrange half half of of soaked soaked ladyfingers ladyfingers in in bottom bottom of of a a 7x11 7x11 inch inch dish dish . . Spread Spread half half of of mascarpone mascarpone mixture mixture over over ladyfingers ladyfingers , , then then half half of of whipped whipped cream cream over over that that . . Repeat Repeat layers layers and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cocoa cocoa . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours , , until until set set . 
1 pound pound spaghetti spaghetti 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups grated grated Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook spaghetti spaghetti in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Scoop Scoop out out some some of of the the cooking cooking water water and and reserve reserve . . Drain Drain spaghetti spaghetti . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic and and pepper pepper ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti and and Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese . . Ladle Ladle in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of reserved reserved cooking cooking water water ; ; stir stir until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add more more cooking cooking water water until until sauce sauce coats coats spaghetti spaghetti , , about about 1 1 minute minute more more . 
2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , diced diced 2 2 red red bell bell peppers peppers , , diced diced 8 8 fresh fresh jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , sliced sliced 1 1 celery celery stalk stalk , , diced diced 1 1 medium medium carrot carrot , , diced diced 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh cauliflower cauliflower florets florets 1/2 1/2 cup cup salt salt water water to to cover cover 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Place Place into into a a bowl bowl the the green green and and red red peppers peppers , , jalapenos jalapenos , , celery celery , , carrots carrots , , onion onion , , and and cauliflower cauliflower . . Stir Stir in in salt salt , , and and fill fill with with enough enough cold cold water water to to cover cover . . Place Place plastic plastic wrap wrap or or aluminum aluminum foil foil over over the the bowl bowl , , and and refrigerate refrigerate overnight overnight . . The The next next day day , , drain drain salty salty water water , , and and rinse rinse vegetables vegetables . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix together together garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , black black pepper pepper , , and and olives olives . . Pour Pour in in vinegar vinegar and and olive olive oil oil , , and and mix mix well well . . Combine Combine with with vegetable vegetable mixture mixture , , cover cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 2 2 days days before before using using . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 6 6 ounces ounces pancetta pancetta or or salt salt pork pork , , diced diced 2 2 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds beef beef chuck chuck 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons kosher kosher salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced celery celery 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced carrot carrot 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white wine wine 4 4 pounds pounds yellow yellow onions onions , , sliced sliced 2 2 pounds pounds red red onions onions , , sliced sliced salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) boxes boxes uncooked uncooked rigatoni rigatoni 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh marjoram marjoram leaves leaves 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook pancetta pancetta until until most most of of fat fat is is rendered rendered out out , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cooked cooked pancetta pancetta with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and save save . . Raise Raise heat heat to to high high and and transfer transfer meat meat to to the the pot pot . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until liquid liquid releases releases from from beef beef and and begins begins to to evaporate evaporate , , and and meat meat browns browns , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-high medium-high . . Add Add celery celery , , carrots carrots , , reserved reserved cooked cooked pancetta pancetta , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add a a heaping heaping tablespoon tablespoon of of tomato tomato paste paste , , bay bay leaf leaf , , and and white white wine wine . . Cook Cook and and stir stir , , scraping scraping up up the the brownings brownings from from the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add sliced sliced onions onions . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cover Cover pot pot and and cook cook 30 30 minutes minutes without without stirring stirring . . After After 30 30 minutes minutes , , stir stir onions onions and and meat meat until until well well mixed mixed . . Cover Cover again again , , and and cook cook another another 30 30 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook uncovered uncovered 8 8 to to 10 10 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Skim Skim off off fat fat as as mixture mixture cooks cooks . . If If sauce sauce seems seems to to reduce reduce too too much much , , add add water water or or broth broth as as needed needed to to maintain maintain a a sauce-like sauce-like consistency consistency . . Cook Cook until until beef beef and and onions onions seem seem to to melt melt into into each each other other . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook rigatoni rigatoni in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until just just barely barely al al dente dente , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Add Add rigatoni rigatoni to to the the sauce sauce and and cook cook until until heated heated through through . . Serve Serve topped topped with with a a pinch pinch of of marjoram marjoram and and freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese . 
1 pound pound spaghetti spaghetti 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 2 2 ounce ounce ) ) can can anchovy anchovy fillets fillets , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup fine fine bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a medium medium skillet skillet , , heat heat olive olive oil oil over over medium medium heat heat and and add add garlic garlic and and anchovies anchovies to to cook cook for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes ; ; stir stir constantly constantly . . Stir Stir in in breadcrumbs breadcrumbs and and turn turn off off heat heat . . Add Add parsley parsley and and black black ground ground pepper pepper ; ; mix mix together together . . Toss Toss anchovy anchovy sauce sauce with with hot hot pasta pasta and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cheese cheese ; ; serve serve . 
2 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons active active dry dry yeast yeast 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 1/3 1/3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , dissolve dissolve the the yeast yeast and and brown brown sugar sugar in in the the water water , , and and let let sit sit for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the salt salt and and oil oil into into the the yeast yeast solution solution . . Mix Mix in in 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of the the flour flour . . Turn Turn dough dough out out onto onto a a clean clean , , well well floured floured surface surface , , and and knead knead in in more more flour flour until until the the dough dough is is no no longer longer sticky sticky . . Place Place the the dough dough into into a a well well oiled oiled bowl bowl , , and and cover cover with with a a cloth cloth . . Let Let the the dough dough rise rise until until double double ; ; this this should should take take about about 1 1 hour hour . . Punch Punch down down the the dough dough , , and and form form a a tight tight ball ball . . Allow Allow the the dough dough to to relax relax for for a a minute minute before before rolling rolling out out . . Use Use for for your your favorite favorite pizza pizza recipe recipe . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . If If you you are are baking baking the the dough dough on on a a pizza pizza stone stone , , you you may may place place your your toppings toppings on on the the dough dough , , and and bake bake immediately immediately . . If If you you are are baking baking your your pizza pizza in in a a pan pan , , lightly lightly oil oil the the pan pan , , and and let let the the dough dough rise rise for for 15 15 or or 20 20 minutes minutes before before topping topping and and baking baking it it . . Bake Bake pizza pizza in in preheated preheated oven oven , , until until the the cheese cheese and and crust crust are are golden golden brown brown , , about about 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 2 2 garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried rosemary rosemary 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 4 4 slices slices salami salami | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Mix Mix tomato tomato sauce sauce , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , garlic garlic , , rosemary rosemary , , basil basil , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Lay Lay tortillas tortillas onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet ; ; top top with with tomato tomato sauce sauce mixture mixture . . Arrange Arrange 2 2 salami salami slices slices into into each each pizza pizza . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is golden golden brown brown , , 9 9 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . 
Filling : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coconut coconut oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 pound pound extra-lean extra-lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 chile chile pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground turmeric turmeric 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander Ravioli Ravioli : : 2 2 zucchini zucchini , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) package package feta feta cheese cheese , , crumbled crumbled 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat coconut coconut oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; add add garlic garlic . . Cook Cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until softened softened , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add ground ground beef beef ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until browned browned and and crumbly crumbly , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir 4-ounce 4-ounce can can tomato tomato sauce sauce , , chile chile pepper pepper , , turmeric turmeric , , black black pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , and and coriander coriander into into the the beef beef mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Peel Peel zucchini zucchini into into large large flat flat ribbons ribbons using using a a vegetable vegetable peeler peeler . . Arrange Arrange 2 2 pieces pieces in in an an `` `` x x '' '' shape shape . . Place Place a a piece piece of of feta feta cheese cheese in in the the middle middle of of the the zucchini zucchini `` `` x x '' '' ; ; add add a a spoonful spoonful of of beef beef mixture mixture . . Carefully Carefully wrap wrap the the ends ends of of zucchini zucchini ribbons ribbons over over the the top top to to form form a a ravioli-shape ravioli-shape . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining zucchini zucchini , , feta feta cheese cheese , , and and beef beef mixture mixture . . Coat Coat the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the 15-ounce 15-ounce can can tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Arrange Arrange zucchini zucchini `` `` ravioli ravioli '' '' over over sauce sauce . . Top Top with with remaining remaining tomato tomato sauce sauce , , basil basil , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until sauce sauce has has thickened thickened and and cheese cheese is is golden golden brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
4 large large fresh fresh artichokes artichokes 1 1 fresh fresh lemon lemon , , cut cut into into wedges wedges 8 8 ounces ounces pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | Cut Cut the the stems stems and and the the tops tops off off each each artichoke artichoke . . Wiggle Wiggle the the artichoke artichoke back back and and forth forth with with your your thumbs thumbs to to open open the the leaves leaves . . Snap Snap off off and and discard discard the the tough tough outer outer leaves leaves . . Place Place lemon lemon wedges wedges in in a a large large bowl bowl of of water water . . Soak Soak artichokes artichokes for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove the the artichokes artichokes from from the the water water and and shake shake off off excess excess water water . . Insert Insert slices slices of of pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese between between the the artichoke artichoke leaves leaves . . Place Place a a garlic garlic clove clove into into the the centre centre of of each each artichoke artichoke . . Place Place a a steamer steamer insert insert into into a a saucepan saucepan and and fill fill with with water water to to just just below below the the bottom bottom of of the the steamer steamer . . Arrange Arrange artichokes artichokes upright upright in in the the steamer steamer . . Drizzle Drizzle olive olive oil oil over over the the artichokes artichokes and and water water ; ; add add salt salt . . Bring Bring water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook artichokes artichokes until until the the cheese cheese in in the the centre centre has has melted melted and and you you can can easily easily pull pull an an outer outer leaf leaf away away , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 1/3 1/3 pounds pounds veal veal medallions medallions 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup Marsala Marsala wine wine 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch | | Place Place veal veal between between 2 2 sheets sheets of of heavy heavy plastic plastic on on a a solid solid , , level level surface surface ; ; pound pound to to 1/4-inch 1/4-inch thickness thickness with with the the smooth smooth side side of of a a meat meat mallet mallet . . Pat Pat dry dry with with a a paper paper towel towel and and dust dust with with flour flour on on both both sides sides . . Melt Melt butter butter with with olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until it it starts starts to to foam foam . . Add Add veal veal ; ; cook cook until until browned browned , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Transfer Transfer veal veal to to a a plate plate . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil to to keep keep warm warm . . Pour Pour Marsala Marsala wine wine into into the the same same skillet skillet . . Stir Stir to to scrape scrape up up browned browned bits bits from from the the bottom bottom of of the the skillet skillet , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir water water and and cornstarch cornstarch together together in in a a small small bowl bowl until until cornstarch cornstarch dissolves dissolves . . Stir Stir into into the the Marsala Marsala wine wine in in the the skillet skillet . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook until until sauce sauce thickens thickens , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Return Return veal veal to to the the skillet skillet ; ; cook cook until until heated heated through through , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and serve serve topped topped with with sauce sauce . 
1/2 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 6 6 eggplants eggplants , , trimmed trimmed and and cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick slices slices salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups tomato tomato puree puree 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh basil basil , , divided divided 18 18 ounces ounces fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , drained drained and and sliced sliced dried dried oregano oregano , , to to taste taste 4 4 ounces ounces grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Heat Heat about about 1 1 inch inch extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil in in a a deep deep skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Pat Pat eggplant eggplant slices slices dry dry with with a a paper paper towel towel and and fry fry eggplant eggplant in in batches batches in in the the hot hot oil oil until until golden golden , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer eggplant eggplant to to a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon ; ; season season with with salt salt . . Combine Combine tomato tomato puree puree , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , and and 4 4 basil basil leaves leaves in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; simmer simmer over over medium medium heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove garlic garlic from from sauce sauce . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a baking baking dish dish . . Place Place a a layer layer of of fried fried eggplant eggplant in in the the baking baking dish dish and and cover cover with with a a layer layer of of tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Top Top with with a a layer layer of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , oregano oregano , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and chopped chopped basil basil leaves leaves , , in in that that order order . . Continue Continue layering layering in in the the same same order order with with remaining remaining ingredients ingredients , , ending ending with with a a layer layer of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and a a drizzle drizzle of of olive olive oil oil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until heated heated through through and and cheeses cheeses are are melted melted , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand a a few few minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
4 quarts quarts water water 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package spaghetti spaghetti 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) package package bacon bacon , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh corn corn 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch pea pea shoots shoots ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine water water and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt in in a a large large pot pot ; ; cover cover and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until pasta pasta is is tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 7 7 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over high high heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir bacon bacon until until browned browned , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add corn corn and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in heavy heavy cream cream and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Mix Mix drained drained pasta pasta into into cream cream mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer pasta pasta mixture mixture to to bowls bowls and and top top with with pea pea shoots shoots . 
4 ounces ounces romaine romaine lettuce lettuce , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped radicchio radicchio 1/2 1/2 Roma Roma tomato tomato , , diced diced 3 3 slices slices Genoa Genoa salami salami , , diced diced 3 3 thin thin slices slices capicola capicola , , diced diced 3 3 slices slices pepperoni pepperoni , , diced diced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons canned canned garbanzo garbanzo beans beans 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons sliced sliced black black olives olives 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , or or to to taste taste | | Toss Toss romaine romaine lettuce lettuce and and radicchio radicchio together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add Roma Roma tomato tomato , , salami salami , , pepperoni pepperoni , , garbanzo garbanzo beans beans , , olives olives , , and and mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese ; ; mix mix well well . . Pour Pour Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing over over salad salad ; ; mix mix well well . . Garnish Garnish salad salad with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . 
2 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages prosciutto prosciutto 1 1 ( ( .75 .75 ounce ounce ) ) package package fresh fresh basil basil leaves leaves 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese marinated marinated in in olive olive oil oil toothpicks toothpicks 2 2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages sliced sliced soppressata soppressata | | Place Place a a slice slice of of prosciutto prosciutto on on a a work work surface surface ; ; top top with with 1 1 basil basil leaf leaf and and 1 1 mozzarella mozzarella ball ball . . Roll Roll prosciutto prosciutto around around basil basil and and mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and secure secure with with a a toothpick toothpick . . Repeat Repeat process process , , alternating alternating with with soppressata soppressata , , until until all all ingredients ingredients are are used used . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until serving serving . 
1 pound pound fresh fresh anchovies anchovies , , rinsed rinsed 2 2 cups cups white white vinegar vinegar 7 7 ounces ounces dried dried bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced Italian Italian parsley parsley 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil , , or or as as needed needed | | Slice Slice open open the the bottom bottom of of each each anchovy anchovy and and pull pull out out the the bone bone . . Open Open each each fillet fillet as as you you would would a a book book and and arrange arrange in in the the bottom bottom of of a a shallow shallow dish dish . . Pour Pour white white vinegar vinegar on on top top . . Marinate Marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 2 2 hours hours . . Drain Drain and and discard discard the the vinegar vinegar . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Brush Brush a a baking baking dish dish lightly lightly with with olive olive oil oil . . Mix Mix bread bread crumbs crumbs , , capers capers , , parsley parsley , , and and garlic garlic together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Sprinkle Sprinkle some some of of the the bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture into into the the bottom bottom of of the the baking baking dish dish . . Arrange Arrange some some anchovies anchovies in in a a single single layer layer in in the the baking baking dish dish , , still still open open like like a a book book . . Brush Brush lightly lightly with with olive olive oil oil ; ; cover cover with with some some of of the the bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture . . Repeat Repeat layers layers with with remaining remaining anchovies anchovies , , olive olive oil oil , , and and bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until top top is is crispy crispy and and lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . 
Cilantro Pesto Pesto : : 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro leaves leaves and and soft soft stems stems 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons toasted toasted almonds almonds 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons plain plain non-fat non-fat yogurt yogurt 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons lemon lemon juice juice 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper Pasta Pasta : : 3 3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour , , or or as as needed needed 4 4 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil Filling Filling : : 1 1 cup cup light light ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1/3 1/3 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 4 4 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 egg egg white white 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water | | Place Place cilantro cilantro leaves leaves , , garlic garlic , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , toasted toasted almonds almonds , , yogurt yogurt , , lemon lemon juice juice , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper into into a a food food processor processor . . Pulse Pulse until until mixture mixture becomes becomes a a paste-like paste-like pesto pesto , , 6 6 or or 7 7 pulses pulses . . Mix Mix all-purpose all-purpose flour flour and and whole whole wheat wheat flour flour together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Mound Mound flour flour on on a a work work surface surface such such as as a a large large wooden wooden cutting cutting board board . . Create Create a a well well in in the the center center of of the the flour flour ; ; add add 4 4 eggs eggs and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil into into the the middle middle of of the the well well . . Beat Beat the the eggs eggs and and olive olive oil oil and and gradually gradually begin begin incorporating incorporating the the flour flour a a little little at at a a time time using using a a fork fork , , lifting lifting flour flour up up from from the the sides sides until until most most of of the the flour flour is is incorporated incorporated into into the the eggs eggs . . Shape Shape into into a a ball ball . . Knead Knead dough dough until until it it is is elastic elastic , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , adding adding additional additional flour flour if if it it is is too too sticky sticky . . Roll Roll dough dough out out into into a a large large rectangle rectangle about about 1/16 1/16 inch inch thick thick . . Cut Cut into into 8 8 6x6-inch 6x6-inch squares squares . . Mix Mix ricotta ricotta cheese cheese and and Parmesan Parmesan cheeses cheeses together together in in a a small small mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Transfer Transfer to to a a piping piping bag bag or or plastic plastic bag bag ( ( cut cut a a small small piece piece off off a a corner corner of of the the bag bag ) ) . . Pipe Pipe a a small small circle circle of of cheese cheese mixture mixture large large enough enough to to hold hold an an egg egg yolk yolk in in the the middle middle of of 4 4 of of the the dough dough squares squares . . Place Place an an egg egg yolk yolk in in the the center center of of each each circle circle . . Mix Mix 1 1 egg egg white white and and 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Brush Brush egg egg wash wash on on edges edges of of the the pasta pasta squares squares outside outside the the egg egg yolk yolk circle circle . . Carefully Carefully place place remaining remaining 4 4 pasta pasta squares squares on on the the egg egg yolks yolks . . Gently Gently seal seal edges edges and and try try to to eliminate eliminate any any air air pockets pockets . . Use Use a a 6-inch 6-inch round round cookie cookie cutter cutter to to remove remove the the corners corners of of the the squares squares . . Press Press edges edges of of ravioli ravioli with with tines tines of of a a fork fork to to strengthen strengthen the the seal seal . . Fill Fill a a large large pot pot with with lightly lightly salted salted water water and and bring bring to to a a rolling rolling boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-high medium-high so so water water is is just just simmering simmering . . Carefully Carefully transfer transfer ravioli ravioli to to water water ; ; gently gently stir stir . . Cook Cook until until pasta pasta is is tender tender , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and place place on on 4 4 warm warm serving serving plates plates . . Serve Serve topped topped with with a a spoonful spoonful of of pesto pesto . 
MEATBALLS 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 cup cup fresh fresh bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten SAUCE SAUCE 3/4 3/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 2 2 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans whole whole peeled peeled tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine ground ground beef beef , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , parsley parsley , , Parmesan Parmesan , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper , , garlic garlic powder powder and and beaten beaten egg egg . . Mix Mix well well and and form form into into 12 12 balls balls . . Store Store , , covered covered , , in in refrigerator refrigerator until until needed needed . . In In a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute onion onion and and garlic garlic in in olive olive oil oil until until onion onion is is translucent translucent . . Stir Stir in in tomatoes tomatoes , , salt salt , , sugar sugar and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Cover Cover , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer 90 90 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato paste paste , , basil basil , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper and and meatballs meatballs and and simmer simmer 30 30 minutes minutes more more . . Serve Serve . 
1 quart quart vegetable vegetable stock stock , , or or as as needed needed 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 carrot carrot , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 stalk stalk celery celery , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced onion onion 3/4 3/4 cup cup Arborio Arborio rice rice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine 1 1 head head radicchio radicchio , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 3 3 ounces ounces Gorgonzola Gorgonzola cheese cheese , , cut cut into into cubes cubes 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped walnuts walnuts 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic glaze glaze ( ( reduced reduced balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Bring Bring vegetable vegetable stock stock to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and keep keep simmering simmering . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil in in a a stockpot stockpot over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir carrot carrot , , celery celery , , and and onion onion until until onion onion is is translucent translucent , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil ; ; stir stir in in rice rice . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until rice rice is is coated coated with with oil oil and and warm warm , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in red red wine wine and and stir stir until until rice rice is is coated coated and and wine wine is is absorbed absorbed , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour 1 1 ladleful ladleful of of warm warm vegetable vegetable stock stock into into the the rice rice mixture mixture ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring continuously continuously , , until until stock stock is is absorbed absorbed , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Continue Continue adding adding stock stock , , 1 1 ladleful ladleful at at a a time time , , cooking cooking and and stirring stirring after after each each addition addition until until liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed and and risotto risotto is is easily easily broken broken when when chewed chewed , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir radicchio radicchio , , Gorgonzola Gorgonzola cheese cheese , , and and walnuts walnuts into into risotto risotto until until cheese cheese is is completely completely melted melted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add more more stock stock and and cook cook until until risotto risotto is is tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cover cover stockpot stockpot for for 1 1 minute minute . . Spoon Spoon risotto risotto onto onto plates plates and and top top with with balsamic balsamic glaze glaze and and Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano . 
1 quart quart milk milk 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , divided divided salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups fine fine semolina semolina flour flour 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups grated grated Grana Grana Padano Padano cheese cheese , , divided divided 1/3 1/3 cup cup grated grated Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) package package pancetta pancetta bacon bacon , , diced diced 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg , , or or to to taste taste | | Combine Combine milk milk , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , and and a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Whisk Whisk semolina semolina into into boiling boiling milk milk , , mixing mixing well well to to prevent prevent lumps lumps . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and cook cook , , stirring stirring often often , , until until thickened thickened , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove saucepan saucepan from from heat heat . . Add Add egg egg yolks yolks , , 1 1 cup cup Grana Grana Padano Padano , , and and Gruyere Gruyere cheese cheese ; ; stir stir well well . . Heat Heat a a nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir pancetta pancetta until until crisp crisp , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir pancetta pancetta into into semolina semolina mixture mixture . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease 2 2 baking baking sheets sheets with with 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter . . Spread Spread semolina semolina mixture mixture onto onto 1 1 of of the the prepared prepared baking baking sheets sheets , , about about 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick . . Allow Allow to to cool cool to to room room temperature temperature , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut small small disks disks out out of of cooled cooled semolina semolina using using a a juice juice glass glass or or cookie cookie cutter cutter . . Place Place the the disks disks onto onto the the other other prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet , , slightly slightly overlapping overlapping the the disks disks . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the remaining remaining Grana Grana Padano Padano cheese cheese over over disks disks and and dot dot with with remaining remaining 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon butter butter . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until gnocchi gnocchi are are nicely nicely crisp crisp and and golden golden , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) package package spaghetti spaghetti 5 5 ounces ounces guanciale guanciale ( ( cured cured pork pork cheek cheek ) ) , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 3 3 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 egg egg 3/4 3/4 cup cup grated grated Pecorino-Romano Pecorino-Romano cheese cheese salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook spaghetti spaghetti in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir guanciale guanciale until until crisp crisp , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk egg egg yolks yolks and and egg egg together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add Pecorino-Romano Pecorino-Romano cheese cheese , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper and and whisk whisk well well . . Stir Stir in in guanciale guanciale . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti and and toss toss until until evenly evenly coated coated . 
Bolognese Sauce Sauce : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 carrot carrot , , chopped chopped 1 1 shallot shallot , , minced minced 3 3 1/2 1/2 ounces ounces prosciutto prosciutto , , chopped chopped 11 11 ounces ounces ground ground pork pork 11 11 ounces ounces ground ground beef beef 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon salt salt to to taste taste 6 6 fluid fluid ounces ounces red red wine wine 21 21 ounces ounces peeled peeled San San Marzano Marzano tomatoes tomatoes White White Sauce Sauce : : 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2/3 2/3 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 1/4 1/4 cups cups milk milk 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste Lasagna Lasagna Layers Layers : : 11 11 ounces ounces lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir onion onion , , carrot carrot , , shallot shallot , , and and prosciutto prosciutto until until onion onion is is translucent translucent and and prosciutto prosciutto releases releases some some fat fat , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add pork pork and and beef beef ; ; season season with with 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon nutmeg nutmeg , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and salt salt to to taste taste . . Cook Cook and and stir stir over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until browned browned and and crumbly crumbly , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour red red wine wine over over meat meat mixture mixture ; ; increase increase heat heat and and cook cook until until wine wine evaporates evaporates , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add tomatoes tomatoes and and mix mix well well ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil , , cover cover , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until tomatoes tomatoes break break down down and and flavors flavors of of Bolognese Bolognese sauce sauce have have combined combined , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat ; ; add add flour flour . . Whisk Whisk vigorously vigorously until until mixture mixture is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour in in milk milk and and cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , over over medium medium heat heat until until white white sauce sauce thickens thickens enough enough to to cover cover the the back back of of a a spoon spoon , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; season season with with 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon nutmeg nutmeg , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and run run under under cold cold water water to to stop stop the the cooking cooking process process . . Lay Lay noodles noodles on on a a clean clean towel towel and and pat pat dry dry . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Pour Pour a a ladleful ladleful of of Bolognese Bolognese sauce sauce and and a a ladleful ladleful of of white white sauce sauce over over the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish ; ; top top with with 3 3 or or 4 4 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles . . Cover Cover noodles noodles with with 1/3 1/3 of of the the white white sauce sauce and and 1/3 1/3 of of the the Bolognese Bolognese sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle some some of of the the Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top ; ; cover cover with with lasagna lasagna noodles noodles . . Repeat Repeat layers layers , , ending ending with with white white sauce sauce and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until bubbling bubbling and and top top is is golden golden brown brown , , 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
4 large large skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh ginger ginger 4 4 bay bay leaves leaves 1/3 1/3 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1/2 1/2 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons toasted toasted pine pine nuts nuts | | Coat Coat chicken chicken with with flour flour . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook chicken chicken with with garlic garlic , , ginger ginger , , and and bay bay leaves leaves until until chicken chicken is is browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Mix Mix wine wine , , vinegar vinegar , , and and honey honey together together in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until sauce sauce is is reduced reduced by by half half , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add orange orange juice juice , , lemon lemon juice juice , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper and and continue continue cooking cooking until until sauce sauce is is reduced reduced by by 2/3 2/3 , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Strain Strain reduction reduction sauce sauce . . Pour Pour strained strained reduction reduction sauce sauce over over chicken chicken ; ; add add pine pine nuts nuts and and simmer simmer over over medium medium heat heat until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1 cup cup cassava cassava flour flour ( ( such such as as Amafil速 Amafil速 ) ) 1 1 cup cup potato potato starch starch 1 1 pinch pinch stevia stevia powder powder 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons coconut coconut milk milk 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons coconut coconut oil oil 4 4 egg egg yolks yolks 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brandy-based brandy-based orange orange liqueur liqueur ( ( such such as as Grand Grand Marnier速 Marnier速 ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons peach peach jam jam 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon colored colored sprinkles sprinkles | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine cassava cassava flour flour , , potato potato starch starch , , and and stevia stevia powder powder in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add coconut coconut milk milk , , coconut coconut oil oil , , egg egg yolks yolks , , orange orange liqueur liqueur , , and and honey honey and and knead knead until until dough dough is is well well mixed mixed . . Roll Roll dough dough on on a a work work surface surface using using a a rolling rolling pin pin until until 1/4-inch 1/4-inch thick thick . . Cut Cut egg-shaped egg-shaped cookies cookies using using an an egg-shaped egg-shaped cookie cookie cutter cutter . . Place Place egg-shaped egg-shaped cookies cookies on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Spread Spread jam jam over over each each cookie cookie and and top top with with sprinkles sprinkles . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until edges edges start start to to become become lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool completely completely . 
Bechamel Sauce Sauce : : 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 1/3 1/3 cups cups milk milk 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt Lasagna Lasagna : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried dill dill salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 7 7 ounces ounces pancetta pancetta ( ( Italian Italian bacon bacon ) ) , , cubed cubed 12 12 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Whisk Whisk in in flour flour and and cook cook until until a a golden golden paste paste forms forms , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk in in milk milk gradually gradually until until bechamel bechamel sauce sauce is is thick thick and and smooth smooth , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat ; ; season season with with nutmeg nutmeg and and salt salt . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir garlic garlic until until golden golden , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in artichokes artichokes until until coated coated with with oil oil , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Increase Increase heat heat , , pour pour in in white white wine wine , , and and simmer simmer until until evaporated evaporated , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and cook cook until until artichokes artichokes are are tender tender , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with dill dill , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir pancetta pancetta in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until crispy crispy , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in the the boiling boiling water water until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and rinse rinse with with cold cold water water . . Pat Pat dry dry with with paper paper towels towels . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread 2 2 ladlefuls ladlefuls of of bechamel bechamel sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Arrange Arrange 3 3 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles over over sauce sauce ; ; cover cover with with another another ladleful ladleful of of sauce sauce . . Top Top with with 1/3 1/3 of of the the artichoke artichoke mixture mixture and and 1/3 1/3 of of the the pancetta pancetta . . Cover Cover with with 1/4 1/4 of of the the Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layers layers three three more more times times , , ending ending with with bechamel bechamel sauce sauce and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until bubbling bubbling , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Broil Broil until until top top is is golden golden brown brown , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package Italian Italian sausage sausage , , casings casings removed removed 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) package package prosciutto prosciutto , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 ( ( 9 9 inch inch ) ) prepared prepared pie pie crusts crusts | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Cook Cook and and stir stir sausage sausage in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until browned browned , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Mix Mix Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , and and eggs eggs together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in sausage sausage , , prosciutto prosciutto , , and and parsley parsley . . Roll Roll 1 1 pie pie crust crust into into an an 11-inch 11-inch circle circle on on a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface . . Transfer Transfer to to a a pie pie plate plate , , leaving leaving a a 1/2-inch 1/2-inch overhang overhang . . Pierce Pierce crust crust all all over over with with a a fork fork . . Spread Spread cheese cheese and and sausage sausage mixture mixture over over crust crust . . Roll Roll second second pie pie crust crust into into a a 12-inch 12-inch circle circle ; ; place place on on top top . . Seal Seal and and flute flute edges edges . . Cut Cut several several slits slits in in the the top top crust crust to to permit permit steam steam to to escape escape . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until center center is is set set and and crust crust is is browned browned , , about about 1 1 hour hour . 
4 veal veal shanks shanks , , sliced sliced for for ossobuco ossobuco 1 1 dash dash all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped carrot carrot 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato puree puree salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup beef beef stock stock 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 lemon lemon , , zested zested | | Slit Slit the the skin skin around around the the veal veal shanks shanks in in 2 2 or or 3 3 places places so so that that slices slices do do not not curl curl when when cooked cooked . . Dust Dust veal veal shanks shanks with with flour flour . . Heat Heat butter butter and and olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and carrot carrot ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add veal veal shanks shanks ; ; cook cook until until browned browned , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Pour Pour in in white white wine wine and and simmer simmer until until reduced reduced , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir tomato tomato puree puree , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper into into the the skillet skillet . . Pour Pour in in beef beef stock stock gradually gradually , , stirring stirring between between each each addition addition . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and cook cook , , turning turning veal veal shanks shanks occasionally occasionally , , until until tender tender , , about about 55 55 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix parsley parsley and and lemon lemon zest zest together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Stir Stir into into the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 7 7 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard | | Mix Mix flour flour and and salt salt together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix in in water water a a little little at at a a time time . . Rub Rub in in lard lard until until dough dough comes comes together together in in a a ball ball . . Transfer Transfer dough dough to to a a lightly lightly floured floured work work surface surface ; ; knead knead until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide the the dough dough into into 6 6 pieces pieces ; ; roll roll out out each each piece piece to to 1/16-inch 1/16-inch thickness thickness . . Heat Heat a a dry dry , , heavy heavy skillet skillet or or flat flat griddle griddle over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook each each piece piece until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . 
1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package bow bow tie tie pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 pound pound sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage , , casings casings removed removed and and crumbled crumbled 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced onion onion 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can Italian-style Italian-style plum plum tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook pasta pasta in in boiling boiling water water for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook sausage sausage and and pepper pepper flakes flakes until until sausage sausage is is evenly evenly brown brown . . Stir Stir in in onion onion and and garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until onion onion is is tender tender . . Stir Stir in in tomatoes tomatoes , , cream cream , , and and salt salt . . Simmer Simmer until until mixture mixture thickens thickens , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir cooked cooked pasta pasta into into sauce sauce , , and and heat heat through through . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with parsley parsley . 
2 slices slices prosciutto prosciutto 2 2 slices slices fontina fontina cheese cheese 4 4 slices slices thinly thinly sliced sliced sandwich sandwich bread bread 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped giardiniera giardiniera ( ( pickled pickled Italian Italian vegetables vegetables ) ) 2 2 hot hot pickled pickled peppers peppers ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat a a panino panino press press according according to to the the manufacturer manufacturer 's 's instructions instructions . . Place Place 1 1 slice slice prosciutto prosciutto and and 1 1 slice slice fontina fontina cheese cheese onto onto a a slice slice of of bread bread ; ; repeat repeat with with remaining remaining prosciutto prosciutto , , fontina fontina cheese cheese , , and and slice slice of of bread bread . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 of of the the giardiniera giardiniera on on top top of of each each cheese cheese layer layer and and top top sandwiches sandwiches with with remaining remaining bread bread slices slices , , creating creating 2 2 sandwiches sandwiches . . Cook Cook each each panino panino in in the the press press until until the the cheese cheese has has melted melted and and the the bread bread has has toasted toasted , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve with with hot hot pickled pickled peppers peppers on on the the side side . 
1 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 95 95 to to 110 110 degrees degrees F/35 F/35 to to 43 43 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons shortening shortening 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 3 3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Combine Combine warm warm water water and and yeast yeast in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; stir stir until until yeast yeast is is dissolved dissolved . . Let Let stand stand until until yeast yeast forms forms a a creamy creamy foam foam , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour yeast yeast mixture mixture into into a a large large bowl bowl ; ; add add shortening shortening , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and Italian Italian seasoning seasoning . . Stir Stir in in flour flour by by hand hand until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Turn Turn dough dough out out on on a a floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead until until smooth smooth , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a large large greased greased bowl bowl . . Cover Cover with with a a moist moist towel towel and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place until until doubled doubled in in size size , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Punch Punch dough dough down down gently gently . . Let Let stand stand for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes for for air air to to release release . . Roll Roll into into a a ball ball ; ; spread spread and and stretch stretch over over the the bottom bottom of of a a pizza pizza pan pan . . Let Let rise rise for for 15 15 minutes minutes before before topping topping and and baking baking . 
3 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white bread bread flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat bread bread flour flour 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornmeal cornmeal | | Place Place white white and and wheat wheat flour flour in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Add Add salt salt , , yeast yeast , , and and water water . . Mix Mix until until a a wet wet sticky sticky dough dough comes comes together together , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Scrape Scrape down down sides sides of of bowl bowl . . Cover Cover with with foil foil . . Allow Allow dough dough to to rise rise for for 18 18 hours hours at at room room temperature temperature . . It It should should not not be be too too warm warm . . Punch Punch dough dough down down with with a a spatula spatula and and fold fold it it over over a a few few times times . . Lightly Lightly oil oil a a heavy heavy rimmed rimmed baking baking sheet sheet with with vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Sprinkle Sprinkle generously generously with with cornmeal cornmeal . . Lightly Lightly spray spray a a work work surface surface with with water water . . Place Place a a long long sheet sheet of of plastic plastic wrap wrap on on the the damp damp surface surface to to hold hold it it in in place place . . Sprinkle Sprinkle plastic plastic wrap wrap with with flour flour . . Scrape Scrape the the dough dough onto onto the the floured floured surface surface . . Sprinkle Sprinkle flour flour on on top top of of the the dough dough . . Gently Gently stretch stretch and and pull pull dough dough into into a a long long , , flat flat rectangular rectangular shape shape , , 12 12 to to 15 15 inches inches long long . . Bring Bring plastic plastic sheet sheet to to edge edge of of prepared prepared pan pan and and flip flip the the dough dough into into the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Reshape Reshape the the dough dough , , if if necessary necessary . . Dust Dust with with flour flour . . Cover Cover with with a a light light dry dry towel towel . . Let Let rise rise about about 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake dough dough in in preheated preheated oven oven until until loaf loaf is is nicely nicely browned browned , , 35 35 to to 45 45 minutes minutes . 
10 bunches bunches fresh fresh spinach spinach , , trimmed trimmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 egg egg 1 1 pinch pinch nutmeg nutmeg 2 2 pounds pounds fresh fresh spinach spinach pasta pasta dough dough 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed | | Place Place spinach spinach , , water water , , and and a a pinch pinch of of salt salt in in a a pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cover cover pot pot and and cook cook until until spinach spinach is is completely completely wilted wilted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and squeeze squeeze out out all all the the water water ; ; let let spinach spinach cool cool to to room room temperature temperature in in a a colander colander . . Soften Soften ricotta ricotta cheese cheese in in a a large large bowl bowl using using a a fork fork until until creamy creamy . . Finely Finely chop chop cooled cooled spinach spinach with with a a knife knife or or process process in in a a blender blender . . Squeeze Squeeze out out any any excess excess water water and and transfer transfer to to the the bowl bowl with with ricotta ricotta . . Add Add Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , egg egg , , nutmeg nutmeg , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper ; ; mix mix well well . . Divide Divide pasta pasta dough dough into into 6 6 equal equal pieces pieces . . Take Take 1 1 piece piece and and cover cover the the rest rest with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Flatten Flatten the the piece piece between between your your palms palms and and press press through through the the widest widest setting setting of of your your pasta pasta machine machine . . Sprinkle Sprinkle flour flour over over flattened flattened pasta pasta dough dough , , fold fold in in half half lengthwise lengthwise , , and and run run through through the the pasta pasta machine machine again again . . Repeat Repeat this this process process 3 3 or or 4 4 times times , , always always flouring flouring , , folding folding , , and and passing passing through through the the widest widest setting setting until until dough dough is is smooth smooth and and even even in in size size . . Change Change pasta pasta machine machine to to the the middle middle setting setting and and pass pass dough dough through through . . Move Move pasta pasta machine machine setting setting to to the the next next to to the the last last setting setting and and pass pass dough dough through through . . Cut Cut the the sheet sheet in in half half , , widthwise widthwise . . Pass Pass each each half half through through the the pasta pasta machine machine in in the the thinnest thinnest and and last last setting setting , , creating creating 2 2 long long and and very very thin thin sheets sheets ; ; gently gently transfer transfer to to a a floured floured work work surface surface , , trimming trimming edges edges . . Cut Cut into into 2 2 even even rectangles rectangles . . Cut Cut dough dough into into 1 1 1/2-inch 1/2-inch squares squares . . Drop Drop a a teaspoon teaspoon of of ricotta ricotta filling filling in in the the middle middle of of each each square square . . Brush Brush the the edges edges with with water water and and fold fold over over diagonally diagonally into into a a triangle triangle shape shape . . Press Press well well to to squeeze squeeze out out any any air air . . Stretch Stretch the the 2 2 ends ends of of the the triangle triangle and and a a fold fold them them together together , , wrapping wrapping them them around around your your finger finger ; ; seal seal . . Gently Gently fold fold back back the the top top corner corner . . Transfer Transfer the the tortellini tortellini to to a a floured floured plate plate or or work work surface surface . . Proceed Proceed the the same same way way with with remaining remaining dough dough and and filling filling . . Let Let tortellini tortellini stand stand for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of generously generously salted salted water water to to a a boil boil ; ; cook cook tortellini tortellini , , working working in in batches batches , , until until they they float float , , 6 6 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . 
cooking spray spray 28 28 ounces ounces pizza pizza dough dough 1/2 1/2 pound pound smoked smoked ham ham , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 pound pound Genoa Genoa salami salami , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 pound pound pepperoni pepperoni , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 pound pound shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 pound pound white white Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced bell bell pepper pepper rings rings 2 2 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Spray Spray a a jelly jelly roll roll pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Cut Cut pizza pizza dough dough in in half half and and roll roll each each half half into into an an 1/8-inch-thick 1/8-inch-thick rectangle rectangle . . Arrange Arrange ham ham in in 1 1 layer layer on on each each rectangle rectangle , , leaving leaving a a 1-inch 1-inch border border . . Layer Layer salami salami , , pepperoni pepperoni , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , white white Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , and and bell bell pepper pepper rings rings , , in in that that order order , , over over the the ham ham . . Roll Roll dough dough around around the the toppings toppings , , starting starting with with the the long long side side . . Stop Stop halfway halfway to to tuck tuck in in ends ends ; ; continue continue rolling rolling . . Place Place each each stromboli stromboli on on the the prepared prepared jelly jelly roll roll pan pan . . Whisk Whisk egg egg yolks yolks and and water water together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; brush brush over over stromboli stromboli . . Cut Cut diagonal diagonal slashes slashes 3 3 inches inches apart apart in in the the top top of of each each stromboli stromboli . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Allow Allow stromboli stromboli to to proof proof in in a a warm warm place place while while the the oven oven heats heats up up . . Bake Bake stromboli stromboli until until golden golden brown brown , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool on on a a rack rack before before slicing slicing . 
3/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 yellow yellow onions onions , , cut cut into into matchstick-size matchstick-size pieces pieces 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 cup cup butter butter 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups warm warm water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 6 6 1/2 1/2 cups cups bread bread flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coarse coarse kosher kosher salt salt 3/4 3/4 cup cup minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced fresh fresh rosemary rosemary 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried marjoram marjoram 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups crumbled crumbled blue blue cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , or or as as needed needed | | Heat Heat 3/4 3/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir onions onions until until golden golden brown brown and and very very tender tender , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Add Add garlic garlic and and butter butter ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until butter butter is is melted melted and and garlic garlic is is fragrant fragrant , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from heat heat and and cool cool onion onion mixture mixture to to room room temperature temperature . . Combine Combine warm warm water water and and olive olive oil oil in in the the bowl bowl of of a a stand stand mixer mixer . . Combine Combine bread bread flour flour , , white white sugar sugar , , yeast yeast , , and and kosher kosher salt salt in in a a bowl bowl ; ; sift sift into into the the bowl bowl with with oil oil and and water water . . Attach Attach dough dough hook hook to to mixer mixer ; ; add add parsley parsley , , rosemary rosemary , , and and marjoram marjoram and and mix mix on on medium medium speed speed until until dough dough holds holds together together and and is is no no longer longer sticky sticky , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn dough dough onto onto a a floured floured work work surface surface and and knead knead , , adding adding flour flour if if needed needed , , until until dough dough becomes becomes somewhat somewhat firm firm . . Divide Divide dough dough into into six six 10-ounce 10-ounce portions portions . . Roll Roll each each portion portion of of dough dough into into a a 12-inch 12-inch rectangle rectangle , , dusting dusting with with flour flour if if sticky sticky . . Fill Fill each each rectangle rectangle with with equal equal quantities quantities onion onion mixture mixture and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup blue blue cheese cheese . . Roll Roll each each rectangle rectangle into into an an oval oval baguette-shape baguette-shape stromboli stromboli , , pinching pinching the the edges edges to to close close . . Grease Grease 2 2 baking baking sheets sheets with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Generously Generously brush brush the the bottoms bottoms of of each each stromboli stromboli with with water water and and transfer transfer to to the the prepared prepared baking baking sheets sheets ; ; cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Allow Allow stromboli stromboli to to rise rise for for 2 2 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown , , rotating rotating the the stromboli stromboli as as needed needed for for even even browning browning , , 45 45 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . 
cooking spray spray 3 3 cups cups shredded shredded cooked cooked chicken chicken 3/4 3/4 cup cup crumbled crumbled blue blue cheese cheese 1/3 1/3 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup hot hot sauce sauce , , or or more more as as needed needed 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) container container refrigerated refrigerated thin thin crust crust pizza pizza dough dough ( ( such such as as Pillsbury速 Pillsbury速 ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a baking baking sheet sheet with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Mix Mix chicken chicken , , blue blue cheese cheese , , cream cream cheese cheese , , and and hot hot sauce sauce together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Unroll Unroll pizza pizza dough dough onto onto the the baking baking sheet sheet and and spread spread chicken chicken mixture mixture in in a a line line down down the the center center of of the the dough dough . . Wrap Wrap dough dough around around chicken chicken mixture mixture , , tucking tucking and and pinching pinching the the seams seams together together . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until crust crust is is golden golden brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Let Let stromboli stromboli cool cool for for a a few few minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
Spice Rub Rub : : 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon whole whole fennel fennel seeds seeds 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon finely finely sliced sliced sage sage leaves leaves 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped rosemary rosemary 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 lemon lemon , , zested zested 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 1 1 1/2 1/2 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork tenderloin tenderloin 8 8 strips strips bacon bacon | | Crush Crush fennel fennel seeds seeds in in mortar mortar with with a a pestle pestle for for 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add garlic garlic , , sage sage , , pepper pepper , , rosemary rosemary , , salt salt , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and lemon lemon zest zest ; ; pound pound into into a a thick thick paste paste , , 2 2 or or 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add olive olive oil oil and and pound pound until until rub rub is is evenly evenly incorporated incorporated . . Cut Cut a a slit slit 3/4 3/4 of of the the way way through through the the center center of of the the tenderloin tenderloin , , leaving leaving 1 1 inch inch on on each each end end uncut uncut . . Spread Spread 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the rub rub inside inside the the slit slit ; ; close close up up roast roast . . Spread Spread the the remaining remaining rub rub evenly evenly over over the the roast roast . . Wrap Wrap bacon bacon strips strips around around the the roast roast , , trying trying to to keep keep seams seams on on the the bottom bottom . . Wrap Wrap roast roast in in plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 1 1 hour hour . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a rimmed rimmed baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil ; ; place place roast roast in in the the center center . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center registers registers 134 134 degrees degrees F F ( ( 57 57 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . . Let Let roast roast rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes and and internal internal temperature temperature rise rise to to 140 140 to to 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 60 60 to to 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1 pound pound bow-tie bow-tie pasta pasta 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh asparagus asparagus , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cooked cooked rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken , , shredded shredded 2 2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , drained drained 1/3 1/3 cup cup pesto pesto , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chicken chicken broth broth , , or or as as needed needed ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook bow-tie bow-tie pasta pasta at at a a boil boil , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , about about 9 9 minutes minutes . . Add Add asparagus asparagus and and cook cook until until pasta pasta is is tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes more more ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir mushrooms mushrooms , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic until until tender tender , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and stir stir in in chicken chicken , , artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , pesto pesto , , salt salt , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix pasta pasta and and asparagus asparagus into into chicken chicken mixture mixture , , adding adding chicken chicken broth broth if if some some moisture moisture is is needed needed . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese over over the the top top . 
1/2 cup cup oil oil and and vinegar vinegar dressing dressing , , divided divided 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pint pint grape grape tomatoes tomatoes , , halved halved 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh basil basil , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , sliced sliced | | Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup dressing dressing into into a a small small bowl bowl . . Arrange Arrange chicken chicken breasts breasts evenly evenly in in the the center center of of a a grill grill pan pan . . Brush Brush both both sides sides of of the the chicken chicken breasts breasts with with dressing dressing ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Pour Pour remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup dressing dressing into into a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Add Add tomatoes tomatoes and and basil basil . . Toss Toss to to coat coat evenly evenly with with the the dressing dressing . . Spread Spread the the tomato tomato mixture mixture evenly evenly around around chicken chicken in in a a single single layer layer . . Bake Bake in in the the Panasonic Panasonic ( ( R R ) ) Countertop Countertop Induction Induction Oven Oven using using the the `` `` Auto Auto Cook Cook '' '' Poultry Poultry with with Vegetables Vegetables setting setting until until juices juices run run clear clear , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center of of the the chicken chicken should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove grill grill pan pan and and top top chicken chicken with with the the fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Continue Continue baking baking until until mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese is is golden golden brown brown and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . 
3 eggplant eggplant , , peeled peeled and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 4 4 cups cups Italian Italian seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 6 6 cups cups spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce , , divided divided 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shredded shredded and and divided divided 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Dip Dip eggplant eggplant slices slices in in egg egg , , then then in in bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Place Place in in a a single single layer layer on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 5 5 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . In In a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish spread spread spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce to to cover cover the the bottom bottom . . Place Place a a layer layer of of eggplant eggplant slices slices in in the the sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with mozzarella mozzarella and and Parmesan Parmesan cheeses cheeses . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining ingredients ingredients , , ending ending with with the the cheeses cheeses . . Sprinkle Sprinkle basil basil on on top top . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . 
3 cups cups milk milk 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups semolina semolina flour flour 1 1 3/4 3/4 ounces ounces freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese 2 2 large large egg egg yolks yolks 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold unsalted unsalted butter butter , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons melted melted butter butter 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese , , or or more more to to cover cover | | Line Line a a rimmed rimmed sheet sheet pan pan with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Place Place milk milk and and salt salt in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring almost almost to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . As As soon soon as as bubbles bubbles start start to to break break the the surface surface of of the the milk milk , , gradually gradually whisk whisk in in the the semolina semolina . . Whisk Whisk until until semolina semolina becomes becomes thick thick , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low ; ; continue continue stirring stirring with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon until until very very thick thick , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Add Add butter butter , , grated grated cheese cheese , , and and egg egg yolks yolks . . Stir Stir quickly quickly to to prevent prevent the the yolks yolks from from cooking cooking . . Transfer Transfer mixture mixture to to prepared prepared pan pan and and spread spread out out evenly evenly . . Cover Cover with with another another piece piece of of plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Refrigerate Refrigerate until until firm firm enough enough to to cut cut , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Brush Brush a a round round , , shallow shallow baking baking dish dish with with butter butter . . Using Using a a round round 2 2 3/4-inch 3/4-inch cookie cookie cutter cutter , , cut cut out out circles circles of of the the semolina semolina dough dough . . Arrange Arrange in in a a circular circular overlapping overlapping pattern pattern in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . With With your your damp damp hands hands , , form form the the scraps scraps of of dough dough into into a a small small ball ball . . Flatten Flatten and and place place between between 2 2 pieces pieces of of plastic plastic wrap wrap to to flatten flatten to to the the same same thickness thickness of of the the other other dough dough . . Cut Cut out out a a few few more more rounds rounds and and arrange arrange in in center center of of circle circle . . Drizzle Drizzle melted melted butter butter over over gnocchi gnocchi and and brush brush it it over over them them evenly evenly . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with a a pinch pinch of of cayenne cayenne pepper pepper and and a a generous generous dusting dusting of of grated grated cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . 
8 cups cups beef beef stock stock 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups orzo orzo pasta pasta 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans fire-roasted fire-roasted diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice 2 2 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato soup soup 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can kidney kidney beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cannellini cannellini beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon powder powder 1 1 pinch pinch crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 bunch bunch kale kale , , chopped chopped | | Bring Bring beef beef stock stock to to a a boil boil in in a a stockpot stockpot ; ; add add orzo orzo and and cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in fire-roasted fire-roasted tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato soup soup , , kidney kidney beans beans , , cannellini cannellini beans beans , , chicken chicken bouillon bouillon , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes into into orzo orzo ; ; return return to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , for for 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Mix Mix kale kale into into soup soup and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes more more . 
1 fluid fluid ounce ounce Montenegro Montenegro amaro amaro liqueur liqueur 1 1 fluid fluid ounce ounce freshly freshly squeezed squeezed grapefruit grapefruit juice juice 5 5 fluid fluid ounces ounces lager lager beer beer , , chilled chilled | | Mix Mix amaro amaro and and grapefruit grapefruit juice juice together together in in a a chilled chilled Collins Collins glass glass ; ; top top with with beer beer . 
1 box box Barilla速 Barilla速 Pronto Pronto Spaghetti Spaghetti 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup Barilla速 Barilla速 Tomato Tomato & & Basil Basil Sauce Sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oregano oregano , , dried dried 1/2 1/2 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shaved shaved 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken , , shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmigiano Parmigiano Reggiano Reggiano cheese cheese , , shaved shaved Salt Salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | POUR POUR whole whole box box of of pasta pasta into into a a large large skillet skillet ( ( approximately approximately 12 12 inches inches in in diameter diameter ) ) . . POUR POUR 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of cold cold water water and and chicken chicken broth broth into into the the pan pan , , ensuring ensuring that that the the liquid liquid covers covers the the pasta pasta . . Turn Turn the the burner burner to to high high , , then then set set your your timer timer for for 10 10 minutes minutes ( ( optional optional : : add add a a bit bit of of salt salt to to taste taste ) ) . . COOK COOK on on high high , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until 3/4 3/4 of of the the liquid liquid has has evaporated evaporated . . ADD ADD Barilla Barilla ( ( R R ) ) Tomato Tomato & & Basil Basil sauce sauce , , oregano oregano , , mozzarella mozzarella , , and and rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken to to skillet skillet and and continue continue to to COOK COOK for for approximately approximately 2 2 minutes minutes . . REMOVE REMOVE skillet skillet from from heat heat and and STIR STIR Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano and and black black pepper pepper . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1 box box Barilla速 Barilla速 Pronto Pronto Rotini Rotini 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon dry dry mustard mustard 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 3/4 3/4 cup cup Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese , , grated grated 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons parsley parsley , , chopped chopped Salt Salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | POUR POUR whole whole box box of of pasta pasta into into a a large large skillet skillet ( ( approximately approximately 12 12 inches inches in in diameter diameter ) ) . . POUR POUR 3 3 cups cups of of cold cold water water into into the the pan pan , , ensuring ensuring that that the the water water covers covers the the pasta pasta . . Turn Turn the the burner burner to to high high , , then then set set your your timer timer for for 10 10 minutes minutes ( ( optional optional : : add add a a bit bit of of salt salt to to taste taste ) ) . . COOK COOK on on high high , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until almost almost all all of of the the liquid liquid has has evaporated evaporated . . ADD ADD dry dry mustard mustard and and cream cream and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer then then , , REMOVE REMOVE the the skillet skillet from from heat heat and and gently gently FOLD FOLD in in the the sharp sharp cheddar cheddar , , Parmigiano Parmigiano and and parsley parsley . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1 box box Barilla速 Barilla速 Pronto Pronto Penne Penne 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered 1 1 cup cup arugula arugula , , packed packed 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese , , grated grated Salt Salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | POUR POUR whole whole box box of of pasta pasta into into a a large large skillet skillet ( ( approximately approximately 12 12 inches inches in in diameter diameter ) ) . . POUR POUR 3 3 cups cups of of cold cold water water into into the the pan pan , , ensuring ensuring that that the the water water covers covers the the pasta pasta . . ADD ADD mushrooms mushrooms and and turn turn the the burner burner to to high high , , then then set set your your timer timer for for 10 10 minutes minutes ( ( optional optional : : add add a a bit bit of of salt salt to to taste taste ) ) . . COOK COOK on on high high , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until almost almost all all of of the the liquid liquid has has evaporated evaporated . . When When desired desired pasta pasta texture texture is is reached reached , , REMOVE REMOVE from from heat heat and and STIR STIR in in arugula arugula and and cheese cheese . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1 box box Barilla速 Barilla速 Pronto Pronto Penne Penne 3 3 cups cups water water 10 10 frozen frozen meatballs meatballs 1 1 cup cup Barilla速 Barilla速 Marinara Marinara sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup prepared prepared BBQ BBQ sauce sauce Salt Salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup green green onions onions , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , grated grated 1/2 1/2 cup cup cilantro cilantro | | POUR POUR whole whole box box of of pasta pasta into into a a large large skillet skillet ( ( approximately approximately 12 12 inches inches in in diameter diameter ) ) . . POUR POUR 3 3 cups cups of of cold cold water water into into the the pan pan ensuring ensuring that that the the water water covers covers the the pasta pasta . . Turn Turn the the burner burner to to high high and and set set your your timer timer to to 10 10 minutes minutes ( ( optional optional : : add add a a bit bit of of salt salt to to taste taste ) ) . . After After 5 5 minutes minutes add add meatballs meatballs and and STIR STIR to to combine combine . . With With about about 1 1 minute minute left left , , ADD ADD both both sauces sauces and and SEASON SEASON with with salt salt and and pepper pepper , , FOLD FOLD to to combine combine . . REMOVE REMOVE the the skillet skillet from from the the heat heat and and TOP TOP with with onions onions , , cheese cheese and and cilantro cilantro . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh sage sage , , divided divided 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , divided divided 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cloves cloves 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds sliced sliced baby baby bella bella mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 large large onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 cups cups pumpkin pumpkin puree puree , , divided divided 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream , , divided divided 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese cooking cooking spray spray 12 12 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 cup cup ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1 1 dash dash ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 dash dash ground ground cloves cloves 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , cut cut in in small small pieces pieces | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Mix Mix sage sage , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon nutmeg nutmeg , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cloves cloves together together in in a a small small bowl bowl to to make make a a spice spice blend blend . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the spice spice blend blend ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until mushrooms mushrooms are are tender tender and and all all moisture moisture has has evaporated evaporated , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine 2 2 cups cups pumpkin pumpkin puree puree , , 3/4 3/4 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and remaining remaining spice spice blend blend in in a a bowl bowl . . Grease Grease a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Arrange Arrange 4 4 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in the the bottom bottom so so they they slightly slightly overlap overlap . . Cover Cover with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the pumpkin pumpkin mixture mixture and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the mushroom mushroom mixture mixture . . Dot Dot with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup ricotta ricotta ; ; sprinkle sprinkle 1/2 1/2 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese on on top top . . Repeat Repeat layers layers once once more more . . Place Place remaining remaining 4 4 noodles noodles on on top top . . Combine Combine remaining remaining 1 1 cup cup pumpkin pumpkin puree puree , , remaining remaining 3/4 3/4 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream , , 1 1 dash dash nutmeg nutmeg , , and and 1 1 dash dash cloves cloves . . Spread Spread on on top top of of noodles noodles . . Sprinkle Sprinkle remaining remaining 1 1 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top . . Dot Dot with with butter butter . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover and and bake bake until until bubbly bubbly , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes more more . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 12 12 ounces ounces sweet sweet bulk bulk Italian Italian sausage sausage 1 1 stalk stalk celery celery , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 yellow yellow onion onion , , chopped chopped 3/4 3/4 cup cup dry dry elbow elbow macaroni macaroni 1/4 1/4 cup cup tomato tomato paste paste 3 3 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth , , or or more more as as needed needed , , divided divided Salt Salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 3 3 cups cups chopped chopped Swiss Swiss chard chard 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cannellini cannellini ( ( white white kidney kidney ) ) beans beans , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese , , plus plus additional additional for for serving serving , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high sausage sausage . . Brown Brown sausage sausage while while breaking breaking it it into into small small pieces pieces , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Add Add diced diced celery celery and and chopped chopped onion onion . . Cook Cook until until onions onions are are translucent translucent , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add dry dry pasta pasta . . Cook Cook and and stir stir 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato paste paste until until evenly evenly distributed distributed , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add 3 3 cups cups broth broth . . Raise Raise heat heat to to high high and and bring bring to to a a simmer simmer . . Add Add salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and oregano oregano . . When When soup soup comes comes to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and let let it it simmer simmer about about 5 5 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring often often . . Check Check soup soup consistency consistency and and add add more more broth broth , , if if needed needed . . Place Place chopped chopped chard chard in in a a bowl bowl . . Cover Cover with with cold cold water water and and rinse rinse the the leaves leaves ; ; any any grit grit will will fall fall to to the the bottom bottom of of the the bowl bowl . . Transfer Transfer chard chard to to colander colander to to drain drain briefly briefly ; ; add add to to soup soup . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until leaves leaves wilt wilt , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in white white beans beans ; ; continue continue cooking cooking and and stirring stirring until until pasta pasta is is perfectly perfectly cooked cooked , , another another 4 4 or or 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in grated grated cheese cheese . . Serve Serve topped topped with with grated grated cheese cheese , , if if desired desired . 
5 cups cups finely finely chopped chopped roasted roasted almonds almonds 2 2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) bottle bottle almond almond extract extract , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 45 45 whole whole almonds almonds | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line 2 2 baking baking sheets sheets with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Mix Mix chopped chopped almonds almonds , , 2 2 cups cups white white sugar sugar , , and and cocoa cocoa powder powder together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add eggs eggs and and almond almond extract extract and and stir stir until until batter batter is is well well mixed mixed . . Form Form teaspoonfuls teaspoonfuls of of batter batter into into small small balls balls . . Place Place 1/4 1/4 cup cup sugar sugar in in a a bowl bowl and and roll roll balls balls in in the the sugar sugar . . Press Press a a finger finger into into the the center center of of each each ball ball , , making making an an indentation indentation . . Place Place 1 1 almond almond in in each each indentation indentation . . Arrange Arrange cookies cookies 2 2 inches inches apart apart on on the the baking baking sheets sheets . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until edges edges begin begin to to crisp crisp , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . 
6 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , packed packed in in oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves minced minced garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh basil basil , , stems stems removed removed 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 French French baguette baguette 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven on on broiler broiler setting setting . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the roma roma tomatoes tomatoes , , sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , garlic garlic , , olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , basil basil , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Allow Allow the the mixture mixture to to sit sit for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut the the baguette baguette into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch slices slices . . On On a a baking baking sheet sheet , , arrange arrange the the baguette baguette slices slices in in a a single single layer layer . . Broil Broil for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes , , until until slightly slightly brown brown . . Divide Divide the the tomato tomato mixture mixture evenly evenly over over the the baguette baguette slices slices . . Top Top the the slices slices with with mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Broil Broil for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted . 
5 very very cold cold egg egg whites whites 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons almond almond extract extract 4 4 1/2 1/2 cups cups almond almond meal meal 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar , , or or as as needed needed | | Beat Beat egg egg whites whites with with an an electric electric mixer mixer fitted fitted with with the the whisk whisk attachment attachment until until foamy foamy . . Gradually Gradually add add sugar sugar and and almond almond extract extract , , continuing continuing to to beat beat until until very very stiff stiff peaks peaks form form . . Switch Switch to to the the paddle paddle attachment attachment and and mix mix in in almond almond meal meal until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Cover Cover cookie cookie dough dough with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate , , 3 3 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 165 165 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line baking baking sheets sheets with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Pour Pour confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar into into a a shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Roll Roll cookie cookie dough dough into into small small balls balls and and coat coat with with confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Arrange Arrange on on the the baking baking sheets sheets . . Bake Bake cookies cookies in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until lightly lightly browned browned and and firm firm , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
1 ounce ounce dried dried porcini porcini mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 cup cup hot hot water water 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) carton carton beef beef stock stock 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried rosemary rosemary salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine , , divided divided 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , divided divided 1 1 shallot shallot , , chopped chopped 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups Arborio Arborio rice rice 1/3 1/3 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Place Place porcini porcini mushrooms mushrooms in in a a bowl bowl and and cover cover with with hot hot water water . . Let Let soak soak until until soft soft , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Drain Drain , , reserving reserving soaking soaking liquid liquid . . Squeeze Squeeze mushrooms mushrooms to to remove remove excess excess water water and and roughly roughly chop chop . . Bring Bring beef beef stock stock to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cover cover to to keep keep warm warm . . Heat Heat 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic cloves cloves ; ; cook cook until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until soft soft , , 5 5 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with rosemary rosemary , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Discard Discard garlic garlic cloves cloves ; ; pour pour in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup wine wine . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium-high medium-high and and simmer simmer until until wine wine reduces reduces , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil with with 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir shallot shallot until until soft soft , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Cook Cook and and stir stir Arborio Arborio rice rice until until toasted toasted and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup wine wine . . Simmer Simmer until until wine wine is is absorbed absorbed , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle 1/3 1/3 of of the the warm warm stock stock into into the the saucepan saucepan ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until absorbed absorbed . . Ladle Ladle in in remaining remaining stock stock and and reserved reserved soaking soaking liquid liquid in in small small amounts amounts and and cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until risotto risotto is is tender tender and and creamy creamy , , 15 15 to to 18 18 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove risotto risotto from from the the heat heat ; ; stir stir in in remaining remaining 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Let Let stand stand for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 butternut butternut squash squash - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch cubes cubes 1 1 large large onion onion , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup whole whole cashews cashews 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil , , or or as as needed needed salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 12 12 fresh fresh sage sage leaves leaves , , cut cut in in half half 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , cut cut into into slivers slivers , , or or more more to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces whole-wheat whole-wheat spaghetti spaghetti 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine butternut butternut squash squash , , onion onion , , cashews cashews in in a a large large baking baking dish dish or or on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Add Add olive olive oil oil , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper ; ; toss toss to to coat coat . . Spread Spread into into a a single single layer layer . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until squash squash is is browned browned and and tender tender , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir sage sage and and garlic garlic until until sage sage is is wilted wilted , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook spaghetti spaghetti in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and return return spaghetti spaghetti to to the the pot pot . . Stir Stir sage-butter sage-butter mixture mixture into into spaghetti spaghetti until until coated coated ; ; carefully carefully fold fold in in roasted roasted squash squash mixture mixture and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . 
1 pound pound petite petite potatoes potatoes , , quartered quartered 8 8 white white mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil sea sea salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 slices slices prosciutto prosciutto 4 4 fresh fresh basil basil leaves leaves , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with non-stick non-stick aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Combine Combine potatoes potatoes , , mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , olive olive oil oil , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper in in a a large large bowl bowl until until evenly evenly coated coated . . Spread Spread potato potato mixture mixture onto onto the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove baking baking sheet sheet from from oven oven , , stir stir potato potato mixture mixture , , and and continue continue roasting roasting until until potatoes potatoes are are crisp crisp , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes more more . . Place Place prosciutto prosciutto in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until slightly slightly crisp crisp , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer prosciutto prosciutto to to a a cutting cutting board board and and chop chop . . Top Top potato potato mixture mixture with with prosciutto prosciutto , , basil basil , , parsley parsley , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 ripe ripe pears pears - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , and and cubed cubed 3 3 sprigs sprigs fresh fresh thyme thyme 7 7 ounces ounces Gorgonzola Gorgonzola cheese cheese , , crumbled crumbled 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh pasta pasta dough dough | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add pears pears and and thyme thyme ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring often often , , until until pears pears have have softened softened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Crumble Crumble Gorgonzola Gorgonzola cheese cheese over over pears pears ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until melted melted , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove skillet skillet from from heat heat and and cool cool filling filling completely completely . . Cut Cut pasta pasta dough dough into into 3 3 equal equal pieces pieces . . Flatten Flatten the the first first piece piece of of dough dough on on a a floured floured work work surface surface ; ; roll roll with with a a rolling rolling pin pin 5 5 or or 6 6 times times . . Turn Turn the the dough dough 45 45 degrees degrees and and roll roll again again , , 5 5 to to 6 6 times times . . Keep Keep rolling rolling and and turning turning in in the the same same direction direction until until dough dough has has a a consistent consistent thickness thickness of of about about 1/16-inch 1/16-inch . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining 2 2 pieces pieces of of pasta pasta dough dough . . Gently Gently transfer transfer 1 1 pasta pasta sheet sheet to to a a floured floured surface surface and and cut cut in in half half to to form form 2 2 evenly evenly sized sized rectangles rectangles . . Drop Drop about about 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon filling filling onto onto 1 1 rectangle rectangle , , spacing spacing the the filling filling about about 1-inch 1-inch apart apart . . Brush Brush the the spaces spaces around around the the filling filling with with water water . . Lay Lay the the second second rectangle rectangle on on top top of of the the first first . . Gently Gently squeeze squeeze out out the the air air around around the the filling filling and and press press firmly firmly with with your your hands hands to to seal seal the the edges edges and and all all dough dough around around the the filling filling . . Cut Cut square square ravioli ravioli shapes shapes using using a a ravioli ravioli cutter cutter . . Transfer Transfer the the ravioli ravioli to to a a floured floured plate plate or or board board . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining dough dough and and filling filling . . Let Let the the ravioli ravioli stand stand for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Bring Bring a a saucepan saucepan of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to the the boil boil ; ; gently gently add add ravioli ravioli , , working working in in batches batches . . Cook Cook until until ravioli ravioli float float to to the the top top , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove using using a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and transfer transfer to to a a warm warm bowl bowl . 
3 pounds pounds boneless boneless pork pork shoulder shoulder ( ( Boston Boston Butt Butt ) ) roast roast , , cut cut into into chunks chunks kosher kosher salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 cup cup low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , or or more more to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can petite petite diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste , , or or more more to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces shiitake shiitake mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced | | Season Season pork pork with with kosher kosher salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat a a large large Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; add add oil oil . . Stir Stir pork pork into into the the hot hot oil oil and and cooking cooking , , turning turning often often with with tongs tongs , , until until pork pork is is evenly evenly browned browned , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour chicken chicken broth broth over over the the pork pork and and scrape scrape any any brown brown bits bits of of food food off off the the bottom bottom of of the the Dutch Dutch oven oven using using a a wooden wooden spoon spoon ; ; stir stir in in garlic garlic , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , and and bay bay leaves leaves . . Mix Mix tomatoes tomatoes and and tomato tomato paste paste into into pork pork mixture mixture , , stirring stirring and and pressing pressing paste paste along along the the side side of of the the Dutch Dutch oven oven to to help help dissolve dissolve it it . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low . . Stir Stir , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Remove Remove Dutch Dutch oven oven from from heat heat and and shred shred pork pork into into the the tomato tomato sauce sauce using using 2 2 forks forks . . Add Add mushrooms mushrooms ; ; cover cover and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 hour hour more more . . Remove Remove bay bay leaves leaves . 
1/2 cup cup margarine margarine 1/2 1/2 cup cup shortening shortening 2 2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 5 5 eggs eggs , , separated separated 2 2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1 1 cup cup buttermilk buttermilk 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped pecans pecans 1 1 ( ( 3.5 3.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can flaked flaked coconut coconut Frosting Frosting : : 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine , , softened softened 1 1 pound pound confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour three three 9-inch 9-inch baking baking pans pans . . Beat Beat 1/2 1/2 cup cup margarine margarine and and shortening shortening in in a a bowl bowl with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until creamy creamy . . Beat Beat in in sugar sugar . . Beat Beat in in egg egg yolks yolks until until smooth smooth . . Combine Combine flour flour and and baking baking soda soda in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add to to the the margarine margarine mixture mixture in in batches batches , , alternating alternating with with buttermilk buttermilk , , until until batter batter is is smooth smooth . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract ; ; add add pecans pecans and and coconut coconut . . Beat Beat egg egg whites whites with with clean clean beaters beaters in in a a glass glass , , metal metal , , or or ceramic ceramic bowl bowl until until stiff stiff peaks peaks form form . . Fold Fold into into the the batter batter . . Pour Pour into into prepared prepared pans pans . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool in in the the pans pans for for 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; invert invert onto onto a a cooling cooling rack rack . . Cool Cool completely completely , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Beat Beat cream cream cheese cheese and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup margarine margarine in in a a bowl bowl until until smooth smooth ; ; stir stir in in confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Beat Beat in in 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract until until frosting frosting is is combined combined . . Spread Spread frosting frosting onto onto the the cooled cooled cake cake layers layers . . Stack Stack cakes cakes ; ; frost frost top top and and sides sides . 
3 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups long-grain long-grain rice rice 1 1 large large carrot carrot , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 cup cup frozen frozen peas peas salt salt to to taste taste 3/4 3/4 cup cup cubed cubed prosciutto prosciutto cotto cotto ( ( cooked cooked ham ham ) ) 3/4 3/4 cup cup diced diced Swiss Swiss cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup button button mushrooms mushrooms in in oil oil , , drained drained 1/3 1/3 cup cup canned canned corn corn , , drained drained 1/3 1/3 cup cup sliced sliced green green olives olives 1/3 1/3 cup cup sliced sliced black black olives olives 1/3 1/3 cup cup diced diced pickle pickle 1/3 1/3 cup cup sliced sliced marinated marinated artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , drained drained 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) can can tuna tuna , , drained drained 4 4 hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , quartered quartered | | Combine Combine water water , , rice rice , , carrot carrot , , peas peas , , and and salt salt in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until rice rice is is tender tender but but still still firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 14 14 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain excess excess water water ; ; let let cool cool , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix prosciutto prosciutto cotto cotto , , Swiss Swiss cheese cheese , , button button mushrooms mushrooms , , corn corn , , green green olives olives , , black black olives olives , , pickle pickle , , artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , olive olive oil oil , , thyme thyme , , and and oregano oregano together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in cooled cooled rice rice mixture mixture . . Fold Fold tuna tuna into into the the salad salad . . Divide Divide salad salad among among 4 4 serving serving plates plates ; ; garnish garnish with with hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs . . Chill Chill before before serving serving , , at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes . 
cooking spray spray 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 cup cup polenta polenta salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup mashed mashed butternut butternut squash squash 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 2-quart 2-quart casserole casserole dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Pour Pour water water into into the the prepared prepared dish dish ; ; stir stir in in polenta polenta and and salt salt . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until polenta polenta is is thickened thickened , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in squash squash , , sour sour cream cream , , and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Continue Continue baking baking until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes more more . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
Eggplant : : 1 1 large large eggplant eggplant , , cut cut lengthwise lengthwise into into 1/4-inch 1/4-inch slices slices 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup whole whole wheat wheat flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder , , divided divided 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper , , divided divided 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 cup cup panko panko bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided Sauce Sauce : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can petite petite diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1/2 1/2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon poultry poultry seasoning seasoning , , or or to to taste taste Filling Filling : : 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) container container low-fat low-fat ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package fresh fresh spinach spinach 1 1 egg egg 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground nutmeg nutmeg salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place eggplant eggplant slices slices in in a a large large dish dish and and cover cover with with salted salted water water . . Let Let soak soak , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and cover cover with with milk milk . . Combine Combine flour flour , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper in in a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Beat Beat eggs eggs lightly lightly in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl that that is is long long enough enough for for the the eggplant eggplant slices slices to to fit fit in in . . Combine Combine panko panko , , remaining remaining 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper in in another another large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Place Place 1 1 slice slice eggplant eggplant in in flour flour mixture mixture , , shaking shaking to to coat coat . . Dip Dip in in egg egg . . Transfer Transfer to to bag bag with with panko panko mixture mixture , , shaking shaking to to coat coat . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining slices slices . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Cook Cook coated coated eggplant eggplant slices slices in in batches batches until until golden golden brown brown and and crisp crisp , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer to to a a cooling cooling rack rack . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining eggplant eggplant , , adding adding oil oil as as needed needed . . Heat Heat 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion softens softens , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , basil basil , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , and and poultry poultry seasoning seasoning . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cover cover ; ; cook cook sauce sauce , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until flavors flavors combine combine , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , spinach spinach , , egg egg , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic , , nutmeg nutmeg , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper together together gently gently in in a a bowl bowl to to make make filling filling . . Spread Spread 2 2 to to 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of filling filling over over each each eggplant eggplant slice slice . . Roll Roll slices slices into into logs logs and and arrange arrange in in a a single single layer layer in in a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking pan pan . . Pour Pour tomato tomato sauce sauce evenly evenly on on top top . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until sauce sauce is is bubbly bubbly , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound Italian Italian sausage sausage 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans beef beef broth broth 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can Italian-style Italian-style stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced carrots carrots 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can great great Northern Northern beans beans , , undrained undrained 2 2 small small zucchini zucchini , , cubed cubed 2 2 cups cups spinach spinach - - packed packed , , rinsed rinsed and and torn torn 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | In In a a stockpot stockpot or or Dutch Dutch oven oven , , brown brown sausage sausage with with garlic garlic . . Stir Stir in in broth broth , , tomatoes tomatoes and and carrots carrots , , and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 15 15 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in beans beans with with liquid liquid and and zucchini zucchini . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer another another 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until zucchini zucchini is is tender tender . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and add add spinach spinach . . Replace Replace lid lid allowing allowing the the heat heat from from the the soup soup to to cook cook the the spinach spinach leaves leaves . . Soup Soup is is ready ready to to serve serve after after 5 5 minutes minutes . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large eggplant eggplant , , peeled peeled and and cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch slices slices 3 3 eggs eggs , , divided divided 2 2 cups cups Italian Italian bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) container container ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 3/4 3/4 cup cup fresh fresh spinach spinach 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons garlic garlic powder powder , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 24 24 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar garlic garlic and and onion onion pasta pasta sauce sauce , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat 2 2 eggs eggs in in a a bowl bowl . . Pour Pour bread bread crumbs crumbs onto onto a a plate plate . . Dip Dip sliced sliced eggplant eggplant into into beaten beaten eggs eggs ; ; coat coat with with bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over low low heat heat . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium medium ; ; place place eggplant eggplant in in skillet skillet . . Cook Cook until until browned browned , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Combine Combine remaining remaining egg egg , , ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , spinach spinach , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and Italian Italian seasoning seasoning in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Place Place eggplant eggplant slices slices in in a a single single layer layer in in a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch casserole casserole dish dish . . Spoon Spoon 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the ricotta ricotta mixture mixture onto onto each each eggplant eggplant slice slice ; ; top top each each slice slice with with 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pasta pasta sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella over over each each eggplant eggplant slice slice ; ; cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1/2 cup cup butter butter 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3/4 3/4 cup cup dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 8 8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded thin thin | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt the the butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat , , and and cook cook the the garlic garlic until until tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . In In a a shallow shallow bowl bowl , , mix mix the the bread bread crumbs crumbs , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , parsley parsley , , oregano oregano , , pepper pepper , , and and salt salt . . Dip Dip each each chicken chicken breast breast in in the the garlic garlic butter butter to to coat coat , , then then press press into into the the bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture . . Arrange Arrange the the coated coated chicken chicken breasts breasts in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Drizzle Drizzle with with any any remaining remaining butter butter and and top top with with any any remaining remaining bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture . . Bake Bake 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) | | Combine Combine flour flour , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and yeast yeast in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix in in oil oil and and warm warm water water . . Spread Spread out out on on a a large large pizza pizza pan pan . . Top Top as as desired desired . . Bake Bake at at 375 375 degrees degrees C C ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . 
6 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth , , divided divided 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 pound pound portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 pound pound white white mushrooms mushrooms , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 shallots shallots , , diced diced 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups Arborio Arborio rice rice 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine sea sea salt salt to to taste taste freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped chives chives 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1/3 1/3 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | In In a a saucepan saucepan , , warm warm the the broth broth over over low low heat heat . . Warm Warm 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the mushrooms mushrooms , , and and cook cook until until soft soft , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove mushrooms mushrooms and and their their liquid liquid , , and and set set aside aside . . Add Add 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil to to skillet skillet , , and and stir stir in in the the shallots shallots . . Cook Cook 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add rice rice , , stirring stirring to to coat coat with with oil oil , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . When When the the rice rice has has taken taken on on a a pale pale , , golden golden color color , , pour pour in in wine wine , , stirring stirring constantly constantly until until the the wine wine is is fully fully absorbed absorbed . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 cup cup broth broth to to the the rice rice , , and and stir stir until until the the broth broth is is absorbed absorbed . . Continue Continue adding adding broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup at at a a time time , , stirring stirring continuously continuously , , until until the the liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed and and the the rice rice is is al al dente dente , , about about 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and stir stir in in mushrooms mushrooms with with their their liquid liquid , , butter butter , , chives chives , , and and parmesan parmesan . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . 
6 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons semolina semolina flour flour 3 3 large large eggs eggs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 ounce ounce grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 ounce ounce grated grated pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 pinch pinch freshly freshly grated grated nutmeg nutmeg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 pinch pinch red red pepper pepper flakes flakes | | Bring Bring broth broth to to a a simmer simmer in in a a pot pot over over high high heat heat . . Taste Taste broth broth and and adjust adjust salt salt and and pepper pepper as as needed needed . . Whisk Whisk eggs eggs , , parsley parsley , , semolina semolina flour flour , , grated grated Parmigiano Parmigiano Reggiano Reggiano and and pecorino pecorino Romano Romano cheeses cheeses , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and nutmeg nutmeg together together in in a a bowl bowl until until well well blended blended . . While While stirring stirring the the simmering simmering broth broth , , slowly slowly pour pour egg egg mixture mixture into into the the broth broth . . Bring Bring mixture mixture back back up up to to a a simmer simmer . . The The liquid liquid will will be be slightly slightly cloudy cloudy initially initially and and clear clear as as broth broth heats heats . . Serve Serve in in bowls bowls ; ; garnish garnish with with a a drizzle drizzle of of olive olive oil oil and and a a pinch pinch of of red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . 
1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 6 6 fluid fluid ounces ounces warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons honey honey 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon anchovy anchovy paste paste ( ( optional optional ) ) 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried marjoram marjoram 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried red red pepper pepper flakes flakes salt salt to to taste taste | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine tomato tomato paste paste , , water water , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , garlic garlic , , honey honey , , anchovy anchovy paste paste , , onion onion powder powder , , oregano oregano , , marjoram marjoram , , basil basil , , ground ground black black pepper pepper , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes and and salt salt ; ; mix mix together together , , breaking breaking up up any any clumps clumps of of cheese cheese . . Sauce Sauce should should sit sit for for 30 30 minutes minutes to to blend blend flavors flavors ; ; spread spread over over pizza pizza dough dough and and prepare prepare pizza pizza as as desired desired . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 ( ( 29 29 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 12 12 dry dry lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 pint pint part-skim part-skim ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pound pound mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | In In a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , brown brown ground ground beef beef , , onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; drain drain fat fat . . Mix Mix in in basil basil , , oregano oregano , , brown brown sugar sugar , , 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and tomato tomato paste paste . . Simmer Simmer for for 30 30 to to 45 45 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add lasagna lasagna noodles noodles , , and and cook cook for for 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Lay Lay noodles noodles flat flat on on towels towels , , and and blot blot dry dry . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together eggs eggs , , ricotta ricotta , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , parsley parsley and and 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Layer Layer 1/3 1/3 of of the the lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover noodles noodles with with 1/2 1/2 ricotta ricotta mixture mixture , , 1/2 1/2 of of the the mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and 1/3 1/3 of of the the sauce sauce . . Repeat Repeat . . Top Top with with remaining remaining noodles noodles and and sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle additional additional Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese over over the the top top . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 30 30 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 cup cup sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 8 8 ounces ounces dry dry fettuccini fettuccini pasta pasta | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat , , melt melt butter butter ; ; add add garlic garlic and and cook cook for for 30 30 seconds seconds . . Add Add the the tomatoes tomatoes and and 3/4 3/4 cup cup of of the the chicken chicken broth broth ; ; increase increase to to medium medium heat heat and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer , , uncovered uncovered , , for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until the the tomatoes tomatoes are are tender tender . . Add Add the the cream cream and and bring bring to to a a boil boil ; ; stirring stirring . . Simmer Simmer over over medium medium heat heat until until the the sauce sauce is is thick thick enough enough to to coat coat the the back back of of a a spoon spoon . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the chicken chicken with with salt salt and and pepper pepper on on both both sides sides . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , warm warm oil oil and and saute saute chicken chicken . . Press Press on on chicken chicken occasionally occasionally with with a a slotted slotted spatula spatula . . Cook Cook for for about about 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side or or until until the the meat meat feels feels springy springy and and is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . Transfer Transfer to to a a board board ; ; cover cover and and keep keep warm warm . . Discard Discard the the fat fat from from the the skillet skillet . . In In the the same same skillet skillet , , over over medium medium heat heat , , bring bring 1/4 1/4 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth to to a a boil boil ; ; stirring stirring the the pan pan juices juices . . Reduce Reduce slightly slightly and and add add to to the the cream cream sauce sauce ; ; stir stir in in basil basil and and adjust adjust seasonings seasonings to to taste taste . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add fettuccine fettuccine and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain , , transfer transfer to to a a bowl bowl and and toss toss with with 3 3 to to 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the sauce sauce . . Cut Cut each each chicken chicken breast breast into into 2 2 to to 3 3 diagonal diagonal slices slices . . Reheat Reheat the the sauce sauce gently gently if if needed needed . . Transfer Transfer the the pasta pasta to to serving serving plates plates ; ; top top with with chicken chicken and and coat coat with with the the cream cream sauce sauce ; ; serve serve . 
1 pound pound bulk bulk mild mild Italian Italian sausage sausage 1 1 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 4 4 slices slices bacon bacon , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch pieces pieces 1 1 large large onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 5 5 ( ( 13.75 13.75 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chicken chicken broth broth 6 6 potatoes potatoes , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 bunch bunch fresh fresh spinach spinach , , tough tough stems stems removed removed | | Cook Cook the the Italian Italian sausage sausage and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes in in a a Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until crumbly crumbly , , browned browned , , and and no no longer longer pink pink , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and set set aside aside . . Cook Cook the the bacon bacon in in the the same same Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium medium heat heat until until crisp crisp , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , leaving leaving a a few few tablespoons tablespoons of of drippings drippings with with the the bacon bacon in in the the bottom bottom of of the the Dutch Dutch oven oven . . Stir Stir in in the the onions onions and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook until until onions onions are are soft soft and and translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour the the chicken chicken broth broth into into the the Dutch Dutch oven oven with with the the bacon bacon and and onion onion mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Add Add the the potatoes potatoes , , and and boil boil until until fork fork tender tender , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce the the heat heat to to medium medium and and stir stir in in the the heavy heavy cream cream and and the the cooked cooked sausage sausage ; ; heat heat through through . . Mix Mix the the spinach spinach into into the the soup soup just just before before serving serving . 
3 cups cups water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 ( ( .7 .7 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing mix mix 1 1 ( ( 5 5 pound pound ) ) rump rump roast roast | | Combine Combine water water with with salt salt , , ground ground black black pepper pepper , , oregano oregano , , basil basil , , onion onion salt salt , , parsley parsley , , garlic garlic powder powder , , bay bay leaf leaf , , and and salad salad dressing dressing mix mix in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Stir Stir well well , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Place Place roast roast in in slow slow cooker cooker , , and and pour pour salad salad dressing dressing mixture mixture over over the the meat meat . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on Low Low for for 10 10 to to 12 12 hours hours , , or or on on High High for for 4 4 to to 5 5 hours hours . . When When done done , , remove remove bay bay leaf leaf , , and and shred shred meat meat with with a a fork fork . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped celery celery 5 5 carrots carrots , , sliced sliced 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups water water 4 4 cups cups tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red wine wine ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup canned canned kidney kidney beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can green green beans beans 2 2 cups cups baby baby spinach spinach , , rinsed rinsed 3 3 zucchinis zucchinis , , quartered quartered and and sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup seashell seashell pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese for for topping topping 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil | | In In a a large large stock stock pot pot , , over over medium-low medium-low heat heat , , heat heat olive olive oil oil and and saute saute garlic garlic for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add onion onion and and saute saute for for 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add celery celery and and carrots carrots , , saute saute for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add chicken chicken broth broth , , water water and and tomato tomato sauce sauce , , bring bring to to boil boil , , stirring stirring frequently frequently . . If If desired desired add add red red wine wine at at this this point point . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and add add kidney kidney beans beans , , green green beans beans , , spinach spinach leaves leaves , , zucchini zucchini , , oregano oregano , , basil basil , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Simmer Simmer for for 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , the the longer longer the the better better . . Fill Fill a a medium medium saucepan saucepan with with water water and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Add Add macaroni macaroni and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Drain Drain water water and and set set aside aside . . Once Once pasta pasta is is cooked cooked and and soup soup is is heated heated through through place place 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cooked cooked pasta pasta into into individual individual serving serving bowls bowls . . Ladle Ladle soup soup on on top top of of pasta pasta and and sprinkle sprinkle Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top . . Spray Spray with with olive olive oil oil and and serve serve . 
1 pound pound sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage , , casings casings removed removed 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 5 5 cups cups beef beef broth broth 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red wine wine 4 4 large large tomatoes tomatoes - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup thinly thinly sliced sliced carrots carrots 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon packed packed fresh fresh basil basil leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups sliced sliced zucchini zucchini 8 8 ounces ounces fresh fresh tortellini tortellini pasta pasta 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley | | In In a a 5 5 quart quart Dutch Dutch oven oven , , brown brown sausage sausage . . Remove Remove sausage sausage and and drain drain , , reserving reserving 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the drippings drippings . . Saute Saute onions onions and and garlic garlic in in drippings drippings . . Stir Stir in in beef beef broth broth , , water water , , wine wine , , tomatoes tomatoes , , carrots carrots , , basil basil , , oregano oregano , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and sausage sausage . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat ; ; simmer simmer uncovered uncovered for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Skim Skim fat fat from from the the soup soup . . Stir Stir in in zucchini zucchini and and parsley parsley . . Simmer Simmer covered covered for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Add Add tortellini tortellini during during the the last last 10 10 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top of of each each serving serving . 
9 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups milk milk 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , divided divided 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 cups cups ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2 2 cups cups cubed cubed , , cooked cooked chicken chicken meat meat 2 2 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed and and drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese for for topping topping | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in boiling boiling water water for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , and and rinse rinse with with cold cold water water . . Melt Melt the the butter butter in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook the the onion onion and and garlic garlic in in the the butter butter until until tender tender , , stirring stirring frequently frequently . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour and and salt salt , , and and simmer simmer until until bubbly bubbly . . Mix Mix in in the the broth broth and and milk milk , , and and boil boil , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , for for 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in 2 2 cups cups mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Season Season with with the the basil basil , , oregano oregano , , and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and set set aside aside . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of the the sauce sauce mixture mixture in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Layer Layer with with 1/3 1/3 of of the the noodles noodles , , the the ricotta ricotta , , and and the the chicken chicken . . Arrange Arrange 1/3 1/3 of of the the noodles noodles over over the the chicken chicken , , and and layer layer with with 1/3 1/3 of of the the sauce sauce mixture mixture , , spinach spinach , , and and the the remaining remaining 2 2 cups cups mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Arrange Arrange remaining remaining noodles noodles over over cheese cheese , , and and spread spread remaining remaining sauce sauce evenly evenly over over noodles noodles . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with parsley parsley and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons steak steak seasoning seasoning rub rub 1/2 1/2 cup cup balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds boneless boneless pork pork loin loin roast roast | | Dissolve Dissolve steak steak seasoning seasoning in in balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , then then stir stir in in olive olive oil oil . . Place Place pork pork into into a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag and and pour pour marinade marinade overtop overtop . . Squeeze Squeeze out out air air and and seal seal bag bag ; ; marinate marinate 2 2 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place pork pork into into a a glass glass baking baking dish dish along along with with marinade marinade . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven , , basting basting occasionally occasionally until until the the pork pork reaches reaches an an internal internal temperature temperature of of 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 65 65 degrees degrees C C ) ) , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Let Let the the roast roast rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing and and serving serving . 
3 eggs eggs , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups Italian Italian seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried parsley parsley 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and chopped chopped 4 4 pork pork chops chops | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees F F ( ( 160 160 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , beat beat together together the the eggs eggs and and milk milk . . In In a a separate separate small small bowl bowl , , mix mix the the bread bread crumbs crumbs , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and parsley parsley . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large , , oven-proof oven-proof skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Remove Remove garlic garlic , , reserving reserving for for other other uses uses . . Dip Dip each each pork pork chop chop into into the the egg egg mixture mixture , , then then into into the the bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture , , coating coating evenly evenly . . Place Place coated coated pork pork chops chops in in the the skillet skillet , , and and brown brown abut abut 5 5 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . Place Place the the skillet skillet and and pork pork chops chops in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , and and cook cook 25 25 minutes minutes , , or or to to an an internal internal temperature temperature of of 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
Gnocchi : : 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed Sauce Sauce : : 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 dash dash crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 6 6 basil basil leaves leaves , , finely finely shredded shredded Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks | | Stir Stir together together the the ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , eggs eggs , , Parmesan Parmesan Cheese Cheese , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic powder powder in in a a large large bowl bowl until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 cup cup of of flour flour . . Add Add additional additional flour flour if if needed needed to to form form a a soft soft dough dough . . Divide Divide the the dough dough into into 3 3 or or 4 4 pieces pieces , , and and roll roll into into 1/2-inch-thick 1/2-inch-thick ropes ropes on on a a floured floured surface surface . . Cut Cut each each rope rope into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces , , and and place place on on a a lightly lightly floured floured baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place in in the the refrigerator refrigerator until until ready ready to to use use . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until softened softened and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and cook cook for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in shredded shredded basil basil and and season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . While While sauce sauce is is simmering simmering , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Boil Boil the the gnocchi gnocchi until until they they float float to to the the surface surface , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then drain drain . . To To assemble assemble the the dish dish , , stir stir the the cubed cubed mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese into into the the sauce sauce and and allow allow the the heat heat of of the the sauce sauce to to soften soften , , but but not not melt melt the the cheese cheese . . Place Place gnocchi gnocchi into into a a serving serving bowl bowl , , and and spoon spoon sauce sauce overtop overtop . 
12 ounces ounces penne penne pasta pasta 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 pound pound portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms , , diced diced 1 1 pound pound medium medium shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar Alfredo Alfredo sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup cream cream 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , or or more more to to taste taste Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped parsley parsley | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , melt melt butter butter together together with with the the olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , and and cook cook until until softened softened and and translucent translucent , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic , , red red pepper pepper , , and and mushroom mushroom ; ; cook cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until soft soft , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes more more . . Stir Stir in in the the shrimp shrimp , , and and cook cook until until firm firm and and pink pink , , then then pour pour in in Alfredo Alfredo sauce sauce , , Romano Romano cheese cheese , , and and cream cream ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer stirring stirring constantly constantly until until thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with cayenne cayenne , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Stir Stir drained drained pasta pasta into into the the sauce sauce , , and and serve serve sprinkled sprinkled with with chopped chopped parsley parsley . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package cheese cheese tortellini tortellini 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with garlic garlic and and onion onion 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh spinach spinach 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3/4 3/4 cup cup milk milk 3/4 3/4 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add the the tortellini tortellini , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . While While you you get get the the tortellini tortellini going going , , combine combine the the tomatoes tomatoes , , spinach spinach , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , basil basil and and garlic garlic in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the mixture mixture begins begins to to bubble bubble . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the flour flour , , milk milk and and cream cream . . Stir Stir this this mixture mixture into into the the saucepan saucepan along along with with the the Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Heat Heat through through , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer until until thick thick , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain the the tortellini tortellini , , but but do do not not rinse rinse , , then then pour pour them them into into the the saucepan saucepan with with the the sauce sauce . . Stir Stir to to coat coat , , and and serve serve . 
2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/3 1/3 cup cup finely finely diced diced onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine | | In In a a food food processor processor place place Italian Italian tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato paste paste , , chopped chopped parsley parsley , , minced minced garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat saute saute the the finely finely chopped chopped onion onion in in olive olive oil oil for for 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the blended blended tomato tomato sauce sauce and and white white wine wine . . Simmer Simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves salt salt and and freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 eggs eggs 4 4 cups cups panko panko bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or more more if if needed needed 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil for for frying frying 1/2 1/2 cup cup prepared prepared tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella , , cut cut into into small small cubes cubes 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated provolone provolone cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts between between two two sheets sheets of of heavy heavy plastic plastic ( ( resealable resealable freezer freezer bags bags work work well well ) ) on on a a solid solid , , level level surface surface . . Firmly Firmly pound pound chicken chicken with with the the smooth smooth side side of of a a meat meat mallet mallet to to a a thickness thickness of of 1/2-inch 1/2-inch . . Season Season chicken chicken thoroughly thoroughly with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Beat Beat eggs eggs in in a a shallow shallow bowl bowl and and set set aside aside . . Mix Mix bread bread crumbs crumbs and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan in in a a separate separate bowl bowl , , set set aside aside . . Place Place flour flour in in a a sifter sifter or or strainer strainer ; ; sprinkle sprinkle over over chicken chicken breasts breasts , , evenly evenly coating coating both both sides sides . . Dip Dip flour flour coated coated chicken chicken breast breast in in beaten beaten eggs eggs . . Transfer Transfer breast breast to to breadcrumb breadcrumb mixture mixture , , pressing pressing the the crumbs crumbs into into both both sides sides . . Repeat Repeat for for each each breast breast . . Set Set aside aside breaded breaded chicken chicken breasts breasts for for about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet on on medium-high medium-high heat heat until until it it begins begins to to shimmer shimmer . . Cook Cook chicken chicken until until golden golden , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . The The chicken chicken will will finish finish cooking cooking in in the the oven oven . . Place Place chicken chicken in in a a baking baking dish dish and and top top each each breast breast with with about about 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Layer Layer each each chicken chicken breast breast with with equal equal amounts amounts of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , fresh fresh basil basil , , and and provolone provolone cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1 1 to to 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top and and drizzle drizzle with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is browned browned and and bubbly bubbly , , and and chicken chicken breasts breasts are are no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the center center should should read read at at least least 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
CAKE : : 1 1 ( ( 18.25 18.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package moist moist white white cake cake mix mix 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon instant instant coffee coffee powder powder 1/4 1/4 cup cup coffee coffee 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coffee coffee flavored flavored liqueur liqueur FILLING FILLING : : 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons coffee coffee flavored flavored liqueur liqueur FROSTING FROSTING : : 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons coffee coffee flavored flavored liqueur liqueur GARNISH GARNISH : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) square square semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour 3 3 ( ( 9 9 inch inch ) ) pans pans . . Prepare Prepare the the cake cake mix mix according according to to package package directions directions . . Divide Divide two two thirds thirds of of batter batter between between 2 2 pans pans . . Stir Stir instant instant coffee coffee into into remaining remaining batter batter ; ; pour pour into into remaining remaining pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes , , or or until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the center center of of the the cake cake comes comes out out clean clean . . Let Let cool cool in in pan pan for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , then then turn turn out out onto onto a a wire wire rack rack and and cool cool completely completely . . In In a a measuring measuring cup cup , , combine combine brewed brewed coffee coffee and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon coffee coffee liqueur liqueur ; ; set set aside aside . . To To make make the the filling filling : : In In a a small small bowl bowl , , using using an an electric electric mixer mixer set set on on low low speed speed , , combine combine mascarpone mascarpone , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons coffee coffee liqueur liqueur ; ; beat beat just just until until smooth smooth . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap and and refrigerate refrigerate . . To To make make the the frosting frosting : : In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , using using an an electric electric mixer mixer set set on on medium-high medium-high speed speed , , beat beat the the cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons coffee coffee liqueur liqueur until until stiff stiff . . Fold Fold 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of cream cream mixture mixture into into filling filling mixture mixture . . To To assemble assemble the the cake cake : : Place Place one one plain plain cake cake layer layer on on a a serving serving plate plate . . Using Using a a thin thin skewer skewer , , poke poke holes holes in in cake cake , , about about 1 1 inch inch apart apart . . Pour Pour one one third third of of reserved reserved coffee coffee mixture mixture over over cake cake , , then then spread spread with with half half of of the the filling filling mixture mixture . . Top Top with with coffee-flavored coffee-flavored cake cake layer layer ; ; poke poke holes holes in in cake cake . . Pour Pour another another third third of of the the coffee coffee mixture mixture over over the the second second layer layer and and spread spread with with the the remaining remaining filling filling . . Top Top with with remaining remaining cake cake layer layer ; ; poke poke holes holes in in cake cake . . Pour Pour remaining remaining coffee coffee mixture mixture on on top top . . Spread Spread sides sides and and top top of of cake cake with with frosting frosting . . Place Place cocoa cocoa in in a a sieve sieve and and lightly lightly dust dust top top of of cake cake . . Garnish Garnish with with chocolate chocolate curls curls . . Refrigerate Refrigerate at at least least 30 30 minutes minutes before before serving serving . . To To make make the the chocolate chocolate curls curls , , use use a a vegetable vegetable peeler peeler and and run run it it down down the the edge edge of of the the chocolate chocolate bar bar . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into cubes cubes 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , divided divided 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced , , divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1 1 pound pound fettuccini fettuccini pasta pasta 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1/3 1/3 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 3 3 cups cups milk milk 1 1 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half 3/4 3/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded Colby-Monterey Colby-Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 3 3 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat combine combine chicken chicken , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , and and Italian Italian seasoning seasoning . . Cook Cook until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . Remove Remove from from skillet skillet and and set set aside aside . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , melt melt 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in the the skillet skillet . . Saute Saute onion onion , , 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , and and mushrooms mushrooms until until onions onions are are transparent transparent . . Stir Stir in in flour flour , , salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; cook cook 2 2 minutes minutes . . Slowly Slowly add add milk milk and and half-and-half half-and-half , , stirring stirring until until smooth smooth and and creamy creamy . . Stir Stir in in Parmesan Parmesan and and Colby-Monterey Colby-Monterey Jack Jack cheeses cheeses ; ; stir stir until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Stir Stir in in chicken chicken mixture mixture , , tomatoes tomatoes and and sour sour cream cream . . Serve Serve over over cooked cooked fettuccini fettuccini . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely chopped chopped 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into strips strips 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh spinach spinach leaves leaves 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry Alfredo Alfredo sauce sauce mix mix 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pesto pesto 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry penne penne pasta pasta 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic , , saute saute for for 1 1 minute minute ; ; then then add add chicken chicken and and cook cook for for 7 7 to to 8 8 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . When When chicken chicken is is close close to to being being cooked cooked through through ( ( no no longer longer pink pink inside inside ) ) , , add add spinach spinach and and saute saute all all together together for for 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , prepare prepare Alfredo Alfredo sauce sauce according according to to package package directions directions . . When When finished finished , , stir stir in in 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pesto pesto ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a large large pot pot of of salted salted boiling boiling water water , , cook cook pasta pasta for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente . . Rinse Rinse under under cold cold water water and and drain drain . . Add Add chicken/spinach chicken/spinach mixture mixture to to pasta pasta , , then then stir stir in in pesto/Alfredo pesto/Alfredo sauce sauce . . Mix Mix well well , , top top with with cheese cheese and and serve serve . 
cooking spray spray 9 9 uncooked uncooked lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can vegetable vegetable broth broth 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh rosemary rosemary 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can marinated marinated artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , drained drained and and chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed , , drained drained and and squeezed squeezed dry dry 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar tomato tomato pasta pasta sauce sauce 3 3 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , divided divided 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) package package herb herb and and garlic garlic feta feta , , crumbled crumbled | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add noodles noodles and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Spray Spray a a large large skillet skillet with with cooking cooking spray spray and and heat heat on on medium-high medium-high . . Saute Saute onion onion and and garlic garlic for for 3 3 minutes minutes , , or or until until onion onion is is tender-crisp tender-crisp . . Stir Stir in in broth broth and and rosemary rosemary ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir in in artichoke artichoke hearts hearts and and spinach spinach ; ; reduce reduce heat heat , , cover cover and and simmer simmer 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in pasta pasta sauce sauce . . Spread Spread 1/4 1/4 of of the the artichoke artichoke mixture mixture in in the the bottom bottom of of the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish ; ; top top with with 3 3 cooked cooked noodles noodles . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 3/4 3/4 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese over over noodles noodles . . Repeat Repeat layers layers 2 2 more more times times , , ending ending with with artichoke artichoke mixture mixture and and mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle crumbled crumbled feta feta on on top top . . Bake Bake , , covered covered , , for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover , , and and bake bake 15 15 minutes minutes more more , , or or until until hot hot and and bubbly bubbly . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before cutting cutting . 
1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 2 2 ounces ounces dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 3/4 3/4 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 2 2 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a medium medium baking baking sheet sheet . . Pour Pour egg egg into into a a small small shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Place Place bread bread crumbs crumbs in in a a separate separate shallow shallow bowl bowl . . Dip Dip chicken chicken into into egg egg , , then then into into the the bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Place Place coated coated chicken chicken on on the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet and and bake bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Pour Pour 1/2 1/2 of of the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce into into a a 7x11 7x11 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Place Place chicken chicken over over sauce sauce , , and and cover cover with with remaining remaining sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle mozzarella mozzarella and and Parmesan Parmesan cheeses cheeses on on top top and and return return to to the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon coarse coarse salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh asparagus asparagus spears spears , , trimmed trimmed | | Melt Melt butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the olive olive oil oil , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook garlic garlic in in butter butter for for a a minute minute , , but but do do not not brown brown . . Add Add asparagus asparagus , , and and cook cook for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , turning turning asparagus asparagus to to ensure ensure even even cooking cooking . 
6 egg egg yolks yolks 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2/3 2/3 cup cup milk milk 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 pound pound mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup strong strong brewed brewed coffee coffee , , room room temperature temperature 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons rum rum 2 2 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages ladyfinger ladyfinger cookies cookies 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , whisk whisk together together egg egg yolks yolks and and sugar sugar until until well well blended blended . . Whisk Whisk in in milk milk and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until mixture mixture boils boils . . Boil Boil gently gently for for 1 1 minute minute , , remove remove from from heat heat and and allow allow to to cool cool slightly slightly . . Cover Cover tightly tightly and and chill chill in in refrigerator refrigerator 1 1 hour hour . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , beat beat cream cream with with vanilla vanilla until until stiff stiff peaks peaks form form . . Whisk Whisk mascarpone mascarpone into into yolk yolk mixture mixture until until smooth smooth . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine coffee coffee and and rum rum . . Split Split ladyfingers ladyfingers in in half half lengthwise lengthwise and and drizzle drizzle with with coffee coffee mixture mixture . . Arrange Arrange half half of of soaked soaked ladyfingers ladyfingers in in bottom bottom of of a a 7x11 7x11 inch inch dish dish . . Spread Spread half half of of mascarpone mascarpone mixture mixture over over ladyfingers ladyfingers , , then then half half of of whipped whipped cream cream over over that that . . Repeat Repeat layers layers and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cocoa cocoa . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours , , until until set set . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed and and finely finely chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 6 6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 2 2 cups cups prepared prepared marinara marinara sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , divided divided 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) package package garlic garlic croutons croutons | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Coat Coat the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch casserole casserole dish dish with with olive olive oil oil , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with garlic garlic and and hot hot red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Arrange Arrange the the chicken chicken breasts breasts in in bottom bottom of of the the dish dish , , and and pour pour marinara marinara sauce sauce over over chicken chicken . . Sprinkle Sprinkle basil basil over over marinara marinara sauce sauce , , and and top top with with half half the the mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , followed followed by by half half the the Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle on on the the croutons croutons , , then then top top with with the the remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and remaining remaining Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese and and croutons croutons are are golden golden brown brown and and the the chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside , , about about 35 35 minutes minutes to to an an hour hour , , depending depending on on the the shape shape and and thickness thickness of of your your chicken chicken breasts breasts . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into the the thickest thickest part part of of a a chicken chicken breast breast should should read read at at least least 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 70 70 degrees degrees C C ) ) . 
1 pound pound seashell seashell pasta pasta 1/4 1/4 pound pound Genoa Genoa salami salami , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 pound pound pepperoni pepperoni sausage sausage , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 pound pound Asiago Asiago cheese cheese , , diced diced 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black olives olives , , drained drained and and chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 3 3 tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( .7 .7 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing mix mix 3/4 3/4 cup cup extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Cook Cook the the pasta pasta in in a a large large pot pot of of salted salted boiling boiling water water until until al al dente dente . . Drain Drain , , and and cool cool under under cold cold water water . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine the the pasta pasta , , salami salami , , pepperoni pepperoni , , Asiago Asiago cheese cheese , , black black olives olives , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , green green bell bell pepper pepper and and tomatoes tomatoes . . Stir Stir in in the the envelope envelope of of dressing dressing mix mix . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for at at least least one one hour hour . . To To prepare prepare the the dressing dressing , , whisk whisk together together the the olive olive oil oil , , balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , oregano oregano , , parsley parsley , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Just Just before before serving serving , , pour pour dressing dressing over over the the salad salad , , and and mix mix well well . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 12 12 ounces ounces cottage cottage cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 egg egg 9 9 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 pound pound shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook beef beef until until brown brown . . Drain Drain . . In In another another skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook onion onion until until translucent translucent . . Combine Combine beef beef and and onion onion in in a a large large saucepan saucepan with with tomato tomato paste paste , , crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , water water , , oregano oregano , , garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , pepper pepper and and sugar sugar . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat until until mixture mixture comes comes to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer 1 1 hour hour . . While While sauce sauce is is simmering simmering , , blend blend cottage cottage cheese cheese , , Parmesan Parmesan and and egg egg until until smooth smooth . . Set Set aside aside . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread 1 1 cup cup of of sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover sauce sauce with with 3 3 noodles noodles . . Cover Cover noodles noodles with with one-third one-third of of remaining remaining sauce sauce . . Top Top with with half half the the mozzarella mozzarella . . Place Place another another layer layer of of noodles noodles and and one one of of sauce sauce over over the the mozzarella mozzarella ; ; top top that that with with the the cottage cottage cheese cheese mixture mixture . . Top Top with with remaining remaining 3 3 noodles noodles and and remaining remaining sauce sauce . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven 30 30 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella on on top top and and bake bake 15 15 minutes minutes more more , , until until golden golden and and bubbly bubbly . 
6 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) links links sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 yellow yellow onion onion , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 red red onion onion , , sliced sliced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 large large red red bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine | | Place Place the the sausage sausage in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and brown brown on on all all sides sides . . Remove Remove from from skillet skillet , , and and slice slice . . Melt Melt butter butter in in the the skillet skillet . . Stir Stir in in the the yellow yellow onion onion , , red red onion onion , , and and garlic garlic , , and and cook cook 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in red red bell bell pepper pepper and and green green bell bell pepper pepper . . Season Season with with basil basil , , and and oregano oregano . . Stir Stir in in white white wine wine . . Continue Continue to to cook cook and and stir stir until until peppers peppers and and onions onions are are tender tender . . Return Return sausage sausage slices slices to to skillet skillet with with the the vegetables vegetables . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until sausage sausage is is heated heated through through . 
2 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the flour flour , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , yeast yeast , , garlic garlic powder powder , , oregano oregano , , thyme thyme , , basil basil and and black black pepper pepper . . Mix Mix in in the the vegetable vegetable oil oil and and water water . . When When the the dough dough has has pulled pulled together together , , turn turn it it out out onto onto a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface , , and and knead knead until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Lightly Lightly oil oil a a large large bowl bowl , , place place the the dough dough in in the the bowl bowl , , and and turn turn to to coat coat with with oil oil . . Cover Cover with with a a damp damp cloth cloth , , and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Punch Punch dough dough down down ; ; place place on on greased greased baking baking sheet sheet . . Pat Pat into into a a 1/2 1/2 inch inch thick thick rectangle rectangle . . Brush Brush top top with with olive olive oil oil . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese and and mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . . Serve Serve warm warm . 
1 pound pound linguine linguine pasta pasta 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 2 2 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/3 1/3 cup cup pesto pesto 1 1 pound pound large large shrimp shrimp , , peeled peeled and and deveined deveined | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add linguine linguine pasta pasta , , and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , melt melt the the butter butter over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in cream cream , , and and season season with with pepper pepper . . Cook Cook 6 6 to to 8 8 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Stir Stir Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese into into cream cream sauce sauce , , stirring stirring until until thoroughly thoroughly mixed mixed . . Blend Blend in in the the pesto pesto , , and and cook cook for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until thickened thickened . . Stir Stir in in the the shrimp shrimp , , and and cook cook until until they they turn turn pink pink , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve over over the the hot hot linguine linguine . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground veal veal 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground pork pork 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped Italian Italian flat flat leaf leaf parsley parsley salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups stale stale Italian Italian bread bread , , crumbled crumbled 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups lukewarm lukewarm water water 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Combine Combine beef beef , , veal veal , , and and pork pork in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Add Add garlic garlic , , eggs eggs , , cheese cheese , , parsley parsley , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Blend Blend bread bread crumbs crumbs into into meat meat mixture mixture . . Slowly Slowly add add the the water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup at at a a time time . . The The mixture mixture should should be be very very moist moist but but still still hold hold its its shape shape if if rolled rolled into into meatballs meatballs . . ( ( I I usually usually use use about about 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups of of water water ) ) . . Shape Shape into into meatballs meatballs . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet . . Fry Fry meatballs meatballs in in batches batches . . When When the the meatball meatball is is very very brown brown and and slightly slightly crisp crisp remove remove from from the the heat heat and and drain drain on on a a paper paper towel towel . . ( ( If If your your mixture mixture is is too too wet wet , , cover cover the the meatballs meatballs while while they they are are cooking cooking so so that that they they hold hold their their shape shape better better . . ) 
1/2 cup cup seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano , , divided divided salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package firm firm tofu tofu 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine bread bread crumbs crumbs , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper . . Slice Slice tofu tofu into into 1/4 1/4 inch inch thick thick slices slices , , and and place place in in bowl bowl of of cold cold water water . . One One at at a a time time , , press press tofu tofu slices slices into into crumb crumb mixture mixture , , turning turning to to coat coat all all sides sides . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a medium medium skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook tofu tofu slices slices until until crisp crisp on on one one side side . . Drizzle Drizzle with with a a bit bit more more olive olive oil oil , , turn turn , , and and brown brown on on the the other other side side . . Combine Combine tomato tomato sauce sauce , , basil basil , , garlic garlic , , and and remaining remaining oregano oregano . . Place Place a a thin thin layer layer of of sauce sauce in in an an 8 8 inch inch square square baking baking pan pan . . Arrange Arrange tofu tofu slices slices in in the the pan pan . . Spoon Spoon remaining remaining sauce sauce over over tofu tofu . . Top Top with with shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella and and remaining remaining 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons Parmesan Parmesan . . Bake Bake at at 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 205 205 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound dry dry ziti ziti pasta pasta 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh rosemary rosemary 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 pound pound ground ground pork pork sausage sausage 1 1 1/2 1/2 ( ( 26 26 ounce ounce ) ) jars jars spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) package package provolone provolone cheese cheese , , sliced sliced 3/4 3/4 cup cup sour sour cream cream 3/4 3/4 cup cup cottage cottage cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) package package mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook pasta pasta in in boiling boiling water water for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , heat heat olive olive oil oil in in large large , , heavy heavy skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook onion onion in in oil oil until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in rosemary rosemary and and garlic garlic . . Transfer Transfer to to a a small small bowl bowl . . Place Place ground ground beef beef and and sausage sausage in in the the skillet skillet . . Cook Cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until evenly evenly brown brown . . Stir Stir in in the the onion onion mixture mixture and and the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . In In the the prepared prepared dish dish , , layer layer 1/2 1/2 of of the the cooked cooked pasta pasta , , provolone provolone cheese cheese , , sour sour cream cream , , cottage cottage cheese cheese , , and and a a little little less less than than 1/2 1/2 of of the the meat meat mixture mixture . . Then Then layer layer the the rest rest of of the the pasta pasta , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , remaining remaining meat meat mixture mixture , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until heated heated through through and and cheeses cheeses are are melted melted . 
3 large large skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch medallions medallions salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup low low sodium sodium chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 lemon lemon , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced Italian Italian ( ( flat-leaf flat-leaf ) ) parsley parsley | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 200 200 degrees degrees F F ( ( 95 95 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place a a serving serving platter platter into into the the oven oven to to warm warm . . Season Season the the chicken chicken breast breast pieces pieces with with salt salt and and pepper pepper and and dredge dredge them them in in flour flour . . Shake Shake off off excess excess flour flour . . Heat Heat the the vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a skillet skillet ; ; pan-fry pan-fry the the chicken chicken pieces pieces until until golden golden brown brown on on both both sides sides , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Work Work in in batches batches and and do do not not crowd crowd skillet skillet , , adding adding oil oil as as needed needed . . Place Place the the chicken chicken pieces pieces onto onto the the warmed warmed platter platter in in the the oven oven . . When When finished finished with with all all the the chicken chicken , , drain drain most most of of the the oil oil from from the the skillet skillet , , leaving leaving a a thin thin coating coating on on the the surface surface of of the the pan pan . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the minced minced garlic garlic in in the the skillet skillet until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 20 20 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour in in the the chicken chicken broth broth . . Scrape Scrape and and dissolve dissolve any any brown brown bits bits from from the the bottom bottom of of the the skillet skillet . . Stir Stir in in the the lemon lemon slices slices and and bring bring the the mixture mixture to to a a boil boil . . Let Let cook cook , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until the the sauce sauce reduces reduces to to about about 2/3 2/3 cup cup , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the lemon lemon juice juice and and capers capers ; ; simmer simmer until until the the sauce sauce is is reduced reduced and and slightly slightly thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Drop Drop the the butter butter into into the the skillet skillet and and swirl swirl it it into into the the sauce sauce by by tilting tilting the the skillet skillet until until the the butter butter is is melted melted and and incorporated incorporated . . Add Add the the parsley parsley ; ; remove remove from from heat heat and and set set aside aside . . Arrange Arrange the the chicken chicken medallions medallions on on serving serving plates plates and and spoon spoon sauce sauce over over each each portion portion to to serve serve . 
1 pound pound spaghetti spaghetti 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups grated grated Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook spaghetti spaghetti in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Scoop Scoop out out some some of of the the cooking cooking water water and and reserve reserve . . Drain Drain spaghetti spaghetti . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic and and pepper pepper ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until fragrant fragrant , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti and and Pecorino Pecorino Romano Romano cheese cheese . . Ladle Ladle in in 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of reserved reserved cooking cooking water water ; ; stir stir until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Add Add more more cooking cooking water water until until sauce sauce coats coats spaghetti spaghetti , , about about 1 1 minute minute more more . 
1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with garlic garlic and and olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh basil basil , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package dried dried penne penne pasta pasta 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 cups cups bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 pound pound thin thin chicken chicken breast breast cutlets cutlets | | Heat Heat 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the garlic garlic , , and and saute saute for for a a few few minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle in in the the red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , and and saute saute for for another another minute minute . . Pour Pour in in the the diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and add add the the basil basil . . Simmer Simmer for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add penne penne pasta pasta , , and and cook cook for for 8 8 minutes minutes , , or or until until tender tender . . Drain Drain . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , whisk whisk eggs eggs with with a a fork fork . . Place Place bread bread crumbs crumbs in in a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Stir Stir the the garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt and and pepper pepper into into the the bread bread crumbs crumbs . . Dip Dip chicken chicken cutlets cutlets into into the the egg egg , , then then press press into into the the bread bread crumbs crumbs until until completely completely coated coated . . Heat Heat remaining remaining olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Fry Fry chicken chicken for for about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side , , or or until until the the coating coating is is a a nice nice dark dark brown brown color color . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , and and cut cut into into slices slices . . Toss Toss the the chicken chicken slices slices into into the the sauce sauce , , and and simmer simmer for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the cooked cooked penne penne , , simmer simmer for for a a few few more more minutes minutes to to soak soak up up the the flavor flavor , , then then serve serve . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 3/4 3/4 cup cup bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 French French baguette baguette 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 4 4 slices slices provolone provolone cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , gently gently mix mix by by hand hand the the ground ground beef beef , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , garlic garlic , , parsley parsley , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and egg egg . . Shape Shape into into 12 12 meatballs meatballs , , and and place place in in a a baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until cooked cooked through through . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , cut cut the the baguette baguette in in half half lengthwise lengthwise , , and and remove remove some some of of the the bread bread from from the the inside inside to to make make a a well well for for the the meatballs meatballs . . Brush Brush with with olive olive oil oil , , and and season season with with garlic garlic powder powder and and salt salt . . Slip Slip the the baguette baguette into into the the oven oven during during the the last last 5 5 minutes minutes of of the the meatball meatball 's 's time time , , or or until until lightly lightly toasted toasted . . While While the the bread bread toasts toasts , , warm warm the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . When When the the meatballs meatballs are are done done , , use use a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to transfer transfer them them to to the the sauce sauce . . Spoon Spoon onto onto the the baguette baguette and and top top with with slices slices of of provolone provolone cheese cheese . . Return Return to to the the oven oven for for 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes to to melt melt the the cheese cheese . . Cool Cool slightly slightly , , cut cut into into servings servings , , and and enjoy enjoy ! 
1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon celery celery salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the garlic garlic salt salt , , onion onion powder powder , , sugar sugar , , oregano oregano , , pepper pepper , , thyme thyme , , basil basil , , parsley parsley , , celery celery salt salt and and regular regular salt salt . . Store Store in in a a tightly tightly sealed sealed container container . . To To prepare prepare dressing dressing , , whisk whisk together together 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar , , 2/3 2/3 cup cup canola canola oil oil , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the dry dry mix mix . 
1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package penne penne pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 6 6 slices slices bacon bacon , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh spinach spinach , , rinsed rinsed and and torn torn into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add the the penne penne pasta pasta , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , heat heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place bacon bacon in in the the skillet skillet , , and and cook cook until until browned browned and and crisp crisp . . Add Add garlic garlic , , and and cook cook for for about about 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in the the tomatoes tomatoes , , and and cook cook until until heated heated through through . . Place Place the the spinach spinach into into a a colander colander , , and and drain drain the the hot hot pasta pasta over over it it so so it it is is wilted wilted . . Transfer Transfer to to a a large large serving serving bowl bowl , , and and toss toss with with the the remaining remaining olive olive oil oil , , and and the the bacon bacon and and tomato tomato mixture mixture . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package angel angel hair hair pasta pasta 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken broth broth crushed crushed red red pepper pepper to to taste taste freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Pour Pour olive olive oil oil in in a a large large deep deep skillet skillet over over high-heat high-heat . . Saute Saute onions onions and and garlic garlic until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-high medium-high and and add add tomatoes tomatoes , , vinegar vinegar and and chicken chicken broth broth ; ; simmer simmer for for about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in red red pepper pepper , , black black pepper pepper , , basil basil and and cooked cooked pasta pasta , , tossing tossing thoroughly thoroughly with with sauce sauce . . Simmer Simmer for for about about 5 5 more more minutes minutes and and serve serve topped topped with with grated grated cheese cheese . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste all-purpose all-purpose flour flour for for dredging dredging 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon capers capers , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons cold cold unsalted unsalted butter butter , , cut cut in in 1/4-inch 1/4-inch slices slices 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh Italian Italian parsley parsley , , chopped chopped | | Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts between between 2 2 layers layers of of plastic plastic wrap wrap and and pound pound to to about about 1/2-inch 1/2-inch thick thick . . Season Season both both sides sides of of chicken chicken breasts breasts with with cayenne cayenne , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper ; ; dredge dredge lightly lightly in in flour flour and and shake shake off off any any excess excess . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Place Place chicken chicken in in the the pan pan , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook until until browned browned and and cooked cooked through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side ; ; remove remove to to a a plate plate . . Cook Cook capers capers in in reserved reserved oil oil , , smashing smashing them them lightly lightly to to release release brine brine , , until until warmed warmed though though , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour white white wine wine into into skillet skillet . . Scrape Scrape any any browned browned bits bits from from the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon . . Cook Cook until until reduced reduced by by half half , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir lemon lemon juice juice , , water water , , and and butter butter into into the the reduced reduced wine wine mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir continuously continuously to to form form a a thick thick sauce sauce , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and stir stir parsley parsley through through the the sauce sauce . . Return Return chicken chicken breasts breasts to to the the pan pan cook cook until until heated heated through through , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve with with sauce sauce spooned spooned over over the the top top . 
1 1/4 1/4 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 18 18 jumbo jumbo pasta pasta shells shells 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 cup cup taco taco sauce sauce 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips 1 1 cup cup sour sour cream cream | | In In a a large large skillet skillet , , brown brown beef beef over over medium medium heat heat until until no no longer longer pink pink ; ; drain drain . . Add Add cream cream cheese cheese , , salt salt and and chili chili powder powder ; ; mix mix and and simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Toss Toss cooked cooked shells shells in in butter butter . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Fill Fill shells shells with with beef beef mixture mixture and and arrange arrange in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish ; ; pour pour taco taco sauce sauce over over shells shells . . Cover Cover with with foil foil and and bake bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove dish dish from from oven oven and and top top with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese and and tortilla tortilla chips chips ; ; return return dish dish to to oven oven to to cook cook for for 15 15 minutes minutes more more . . Top Top with with sour sour cream cream and and onions onions ; ; serve serve . 
1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) loaf loaf Italian Italian bread bread 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the broiler broiler . . Cut Cut the the bread bread into into slices slices 1 1 to to 2 2 inches inches thick thick . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix butter butter , , olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Spread Spread the the mixture mixture evenly evenly on on the the bread bread slices slices . . On On a a medium medium baking baking sheet sheet , , arrange arrange the the slices slices evenly evenly and and broil broil 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until slightly slightly brown brown . . Check Check frequently frequently so so they they do do not not burn burn . . Remove Remove from from broiler broiler . . Top Top with with cheese cheese and and return return to to broiler broiler 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes , , until until cheese cheese is is slightly slightly brown brown and and melted melted . . Serve Serve at at once once . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground oregano oregano 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground paprika paprika | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , Mix Mix together together tomato tomato sauce sauce and and tomato tomato paste paste until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir in in oregano oregano , , garlic garlic and and paprika paprika . 
1/3 cup cup plain plain bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 pound pound ground ground pork pork 2 2 eggs eggs 1/4 1/4 bunch bunch fresh fresh parsley parsley , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried Italian Italian herb herb seasoning seasoning 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Cover Cover a a baking baking sheet sheet with with foil foil and and spray spray lightly lightly with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Soak Soak bread bread crumbs crumbs in in milk milk in in a a small small bowl bowl for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir onions onions in in hot hot oil oil until until translucent translucent , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix beef beef and and pork pork together together in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Stir Stir onions onions , , bread bread crumb crumb mixture mixture , , eggs eggs , , parsley parsley , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , Italian Italian herb herb seasoning seasoning , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese into into meat meat mixture mixture with with a a rubber rubber spatula spatula until until combined combined . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for about about one one hour hour . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Using Using wet wet hands hands , , form form meat meat mixture mixture into into balls balls about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 inches inches in in diameter diameter . . Arrange Arrange onto onto prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until browned browned and and cooked cooked through through , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , diced diced 2 2 red red bell bell peppers peppers , , diced diced 8 8 fresh fresh jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , sliced sliced 1 1 celery celery stalk stalk , , diced diced 1 1 medium medium carrot carrot , , diced diced 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup fresh fresh cauliflower cauliflower florets florets 1/2 1/2 cup cup salt salt water water to to cover cover 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar pimento-stuffed pimento-stuffed green green olives olives , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 1 1 cup cup olive olive oil oil | | Place Place into into a a bowl bowl the the green green and and red red peppers peppers , , jalapenos jalapenos , , celery celery , , carrots carrots , , onion onion , , and and cauliflower cauliflower . . Stir Stir in in salt salt , , and and fill fill with with enough enough cold cold water water to to cover cover . . Place Place plastic plastic wrap wrap or or aluminum aluminum foil foil over over the the bowl bowl , , and and refrigerate refrigerate overnight overnight . . The The next next day day , , drain drain salty salty water water , , and and rinse rinse vegetables vegetables . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix together together garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , black black pepper pepper , , and and olives olives . . Pour Pour in in vinegar vinegar and and olive olive oil oil , , and and mix mix well well . . Combine Combine with with vegetable vegetable mixture mixture , , cover cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 2 2 days days before before using using . 
1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 3 3 1/4 1/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 eggs eggs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon baking baking powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon anise anise extract extract , , or or 3 3 drops drops anise anise oil oil | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease cookie cookie sheets sheets or or line line with with parchment parchment paper paper . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , beat beat together together the the oil oil , , eggs eggs , , sugar sugar and and anise anise flavoring flavoring until until well well blended blended . . Combine Combine the the flour flour and and baking baking powder powder , , stir stir into into the the egg egg mixture mixture to to form form a a heavy heavy dough dough . . Divide Divide dough dough into into two two pieces pieces . . Form Form each each piece piece into into a a roll roll as as long long as as your your cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Place Place roll roll onto onto the the prepared prepared cookie cookie sheet sheet , , and and press press down down to to 1/2 1/2 inch inch thickness thickness . . Bake Bake for for 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until golden golden brown brown . . Remove Remove from from the the baking baking sheet sheet to to cool cool on on a a wire wire rack rack . . When When The The cookies cookies are are cool cool enough enough to to handle handle , , slice slice each each one one crosswise crosswise into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices . . Place Place the the slices slices cut cut side side up up back back onto onto the the baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake for for an an additional additional 6 6 to to 10 10 minutes minutes on on each each side side . . Slices Slices should should be be lightly lightly toasted toasted . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil or or canola canola oil oil 8 8 large large garlic garlic cloves cloves , , crushed crushed or or minced minced 1 1 medium medium yellow yellow onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cups cups chopped chopped raw raw kale kale 4 4 cups cups low-fat low-fat , , low-sodium low-sodium chicken chicken or or vegetable vegetable broth broth 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans white white beans beans , , such such as as cannellini cannellini or or navy navy , , undrained undrained 4 4 plum plum tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried Italian Italian herb herb seasoning seasoning Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped parsley parsley | | In In a a large large pot pot , , heat heat olive olive oil oil . . Add Add garlic garlic and and onion onion ; ; saute saute until until soft soft . . Add Add kale kale and and saute saute , , stirring stirring , , until until wilted wilted . . Add Add 3 3 cups cups of of broth broth , , 2 2 cups cups of of beans beans , , and and all all of of the the tomato tomato , , herbs herbs , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Simmer Simmer 5 5 minutes minutes . . In In a a blender blender or or food food processor processor , , mix mix the the remaining remaining beans beans and and broth broth until until smooth smooth . . Stir Stir into into soup soup to to thicken thicken . . Simmer Simmer 15 15 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle into into bowls bowls ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with chopped chopped parsley parsley . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch thickness thickness 1 1 cup cup prepared prepared basil basil pesto pesto 4 4 thick thick slices slices mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese cooking cooking spray spray | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Spread Spread 2 2 to to 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the pesto pesto sauce sauce onto onto each each flattened flattened chicken chicken breast breast . . Place Place one one slice slice of of cheese cheese over over the the pesto pesto . . Roll Roll up up tightly tightly , , and and secure secure with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Place Place in in a a lightly lightly greased greased baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake uncovered uncovered for for 45 45 to to 50 50 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until chicken chicken is is nicely nicely browned browned and and juices juices run run clear clear . 
1 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground paprika paprika | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine softened softened butter butter , , minced minced garlic garlic and and parmesan parmesan cheese cheese . . Season Season with with garlic garlic salt salt , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , pepper pepper and and paprika paprika . . Mix Mix until until smooth smooth . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package manicotti manicotti shells shells 2 2 cups cups ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 3 3 cups cups spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce , , divided divided 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 2 2 cups cups half-and-half half-and-half 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute onions onions until until translucent translucent . . Saute Saute garlic garlic for for 1 1 minute minute and and stir stir in in ground ground beef beef . . Cook Cook until until well well browned browned and and crumbled crumbled . . Season Season with with salt salt and and set set aside aside to to cool cool . . Cook Cook spinach spinach according according to to package package directions directions . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add manicotti manicotti shells shells and and parboil parboil for for half half of of the the time time recommended recommended on on the the package package . . Drain Drain and and cover cover with with cool cool water water to to stop stop the the cooking cooking process process and and prevent prevent the the shells shells from from cracking cracking . . To To the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture add add the the cooked cooked spinach spinach and and ricotta ricotta cheese cheese . . When When the the mixture mixture is is cool cool , , add add the the beaten beaten eggs eggs . . Spread Spread 1/4 1/4 cup cup spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Gently Gently drain drain the the manicotti manicotti shells shells and and carefully carefully stuff stuff each each one one with with the the meat meat and and cheese cheese mixture mixture ; ; place place shells shells in in prepared prepared dish dish . . Lightly Lightly cover cover the the dish dish with with plastic plastic wrap wrap or or a a clean clean , , damp damp towel towel to to prevent prevent shells shells from from cracking cracking . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Prepare Prepare the the white white sauce sauce by by melting melting the the butter butter in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in flour flour and and chicken chicken bouillon bouillon . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium-high medium-high and and cook cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until it it begins begins to to bubble bubble . . Stir Stir in in half half and and half half and and bring bring to to a a boil boil , , stirring stirring frequently frequently . . Cook Cook for for 1 1 minute minute , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in parsley parsley . . Pour Pour or or ladle ladle the the sauce sauce evenly evenly over over the the stuffed stuffed shells shells . . Stir Stir the the basil basil into into the the remaining remaining spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce . . Carefully Carefully pour pour or or ladle ladle spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce over over the the white white sauce sauce , , trying trying to to layer layer the the sauces sauces without without mixing mixing . . Cover Cover and and bake bake for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven , , uncover uncover and and sprinkle sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake , , uncovered uncovered , , for for 10 10 minutes minutes more more . 
6 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 ( ( 3.5 3.5 ounce ounce ) ) links links spicy spicy Italian Italian sausage sausage 3 3 large large potatoes potatoes , , cubed cubed 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh spinach spinach , , washed washed and and chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup evaporated evaporated milk milk salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Remove Remove skin skin from from sausage sausage and and crumble crumble into into frying frying pan pan . . Add Add chopped chopped onion onion , , and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat until until meat meat is is no no longer longer pink pink . . If If you you are are trying trying to to cut cut fat fat , , remove remove meat meat from from pan pan , , place place in in a a colander colander , , and and rinse rinse under under cold cold water water . . Place Place meat meat in in a a large large pot pot ; ; add add stock stock and and potatoes potatoes . . Boil Boil until until potato potato is is cooked cooked . . Add Add spinach spinach . . Continue Continue boiling boiling until until spinach spinach is is lightly lightly cooked cooked . . Remove Remove soup soup from from heat heat , , stir stir in in evaporated evaporated milk milk , , and and season season to to taste taste . . Do Do not not add add any any salt salt if if using using canned canned stock stock . 
8 ounces ounces lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/4 1/4 cup cup minced minced onions onions 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package large large curd curd cottage cottage cheese cheese 1 1 pound pound mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shredded shredded | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook noodles noodles in in boiling boiling water water for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute ground ground beef beef , , onions onions , , salt salt and and garlic garlic salt salt until until meat meat is is brown brown . . Drain Drain excess excess fat fat , , add add spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce to to beef beef mixture mixture , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch glass glass baking baking pan pan . . Line Line bottom bottom of of pan pan with with three three lasagna lasagna noodles noodles . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of sauce sauce mixture mixture over over noodles noodles . . Layer Layer 1/3 1/3 of of the the cottage cottage cheese cheese over over the the sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1/3 1/3 of of the the mozzarella mozzarella over over the the cottage cottage cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat this this layering layering process process until until all all ingredients ingredients are are used used up up . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for one one hour hour . . Let Let stand stand for for 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package jumbo jumbo pasta pasta shells shells 4 4 cups cups large large curd curd cottage cottage cheese cheese 12 12 ounces ounces mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 ( ( 26 26 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Cook Cook shells shells according according to to package package directions directions . . Place Place in in cold cold water water to to stop stop cooking cooking . . Drain Drain . . Mix Mix together together cottage cottage cheese cheese , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , eggs eggs , , and and garlic garlic powder powder . . Rub Rub the the dried dried herbs herbs in in the the palms palms of of your your hands hands to to pulverize pulverize them them , , and and stir stir into into the the cheese cheese mixture mixture . . Stuff Stuff mixture mixture into into the the shells shells . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 15 15 x x 10 10 inch inch pan pan . . Place Place shells shells open open side side up up , , and and close close together together in in pan pan . . Spread Spread remaining remaining sauce sauce over over top top , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 25 25 to to 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until bubbly bubbly . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 pound pound fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 3/4 3/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 3/4 3/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 ( ( 26 26 ounce ounce ) ) jars jars pasta pasta sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) container container part-skim part-skim ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Cook Cook the the lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in a a large large pot pot of of boiling boiling water water for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente . . Rinse Rinse with with cold cold water water , , and and drain drain . . In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , cook cook and and stir stir mushrooms mushrooms , , green green peppers peppers , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic in in oil oil . . Stir Stir in in pasta pasta sauce sauce and and basil basil ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer 15 15 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix together together ricotta ricotta , , 2 2 cups cups mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , and and eggs eggs . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread 1 1 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce into into the the bottom bottom of of a a greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Layer Layer 1/2 1/2 each each , , lasagna lasagna noodles noodles , , ricotta ricotta mix mix , , sauce sauce , , and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layering layering , , and and top top with with remaining remaining 2 2 cups cups mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Bake Bake , , uncovered uncovered , , for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand 15 15 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package bow bow tie tie pasta pasta 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 boneless boneless skinless skinless chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes to to taste taste 1/3 1/3 cup cup oil-packed oil-packed sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained and and cut cut into into strips strips 1/2 1/2 cup cup pesto pesto sauce sauce | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute garlic garlic until until tender tender , , then then stir stir in in chicken chicken . . Season Season with with red red pepper pepper flakes flakes . . Cook Cook until until chicken chicken is is golden golden , , and and cooked cooked through through . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine pasta pasta , , chicken chicken , , sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes and and pesto pesto . . Toss Toss to to coat coat evenly evenly . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 6 6 ounces ounces pancetta pancetta or or salt salt pork pork , , diced diced 2 2 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds beef beef chuck chuck 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons kosher kosher salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced celery celery 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced carrot carrot 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white wine wine 4 4 pounds pounds yellow yellow onions onions , , sliced sliced 2 2 pounds pounds red red onions onions , , sliced sliced salt salt to to taste taste 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) boxes boxes uncooked uncooked rigatoni rigatoni 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh marjoram marjoram leaves leaves 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook pancetta pancetta until until most most of of fat fat is is rendered rendered out out , , about about 6 6 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cooked cooked pancetta pancetta with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon and and save save . . Raise Raise heat heat to to high high and and transfer transfer meat meat to to the the pot pot . . Season Season with with salt salt . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until liquid liquid releases releases from from beef beef and and begins begins to to evaporate evaporate , , and and meat meat browns browns , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-high medium-high . . Add Add celery celery , , carrots carrots , , reserved reserved cooked cooked pancetta pancetta , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add a a heaping heaping tablespoon tablespoon of of tomato tomato paste paste , , bay bay leaf leaf , , and and white white wine wine . . Cook Cook and and stir stir , , scraping scraping up up the the brownings brownings from from the the bottom bottom of of the the pan pan , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Add Add sliced sliced onions onions . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cover Cover pot pot and and cook cook 30 30 minutes minutes without without stirring stirring . . After After 30 30 minutes minutes , , stir stir onions onions and and meat meat until until well well mixed mixed . . Cover Cover again again , , and and cook cook another another 30 30 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and cook cook uncovered uncovered 8 8 to to 10 10 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Skim Skim off off fat fat as as mixture mixture cooks cooks . . If If sauce sauce seems seems to to reduce reduce too too much much , , add add water water or or broth broth as as needed needed to to maintain maintain a a sauce-like sauce-like consistency consistency . . Cook Cook until until beef beef and and onions onions seem seem to to melt melt into into each each other other . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook rigatoni rigatoni in in the the boiling boiling water water , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until just just barely barely al al dente dente , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Add Add rigatoni rigatoni to to the the sauce sauce and and cook cook until until heated heated through through . . Serve Serve topped topped with with a a pinch pinch of of marjoram marjoram and and freshly freshly grated grated Parmigiano-Reggiano Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese cheese . 
6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 2 2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and cubed cubed 8 8 ounces ounces fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 1 1 onion onion , , finely finely diced diced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic | | Put Put the the chicken chicken in in the the slow slow cooker cooker . . Top Top with with the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce , , green green bell bell peppers peppers , , mushrooms mushrooms , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on Low Low for for 7 7 to to 9 9 hours hours . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 8 8 fluid fluid ounces ounces heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground nutmeg nutmeg 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Melt Melt butter butter or or margarine margarine in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add heavy heavy cream cream , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Stir Stir in in salt salt , , nutmeg nutmeg , , grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese . . Stir Stir constantly constantly until until melted melted , , then then mix mix in in egg egg yolk yolk . . Simmer Simmer over over medium medium low low heat heat for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish with with additional additional grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , if if desired desired . 
1/2 pound pound extra-lean extra-lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 egg egg , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 5 5 3/4 3/4 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups thinly thinly sliced sliced escarole escarole 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked orzo orzo pasta pasta 1/3 1/3 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped carrot carrot | | In In medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine meat meat , , egg egg , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , cheese cheese , , basil basil and and onion onion powder powder ; ; shape shape into into 3/4 3/4 inch inch balls balls . . In In large large saucepan saucepan , , heat heat broth broth to to boiling boiling ; ; stir stir in in escarole escarole , , orzo orzo pasta pasta , , chopped chopped carrot carrot and and meatballs meatballs . . Return Return to to boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cook Cook at at slow slow boil boil for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until pasta pasta is is al al dente dente . . Stir Stir frequently frequently to to prevent prevent sticking sticking . 
1 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) package package active active dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 cup cup warm warm water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , divided divided 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced pepperoni pepperoni 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried basil basil leaves leaves 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten | | To To Make Make Dough Dough : : In In a a small small bowl bowl , , dissolve dissolve yeast yeast in in water water . . Add Add the the oil oil , , sugar sugar and and salt salt ; ; mix mix in in 1 1 cup cup of of the the flour flour until until smooth smooth . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in the the rest rest of of the the flour flour , , until until dough dough is is smooth smooth and and workable workable . . Knead Knead dough dough on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface for for about about 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until it it is is elastic elastic . . Lay Lay dough dough in in a a bowl bowl containing containing 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil , , then then flip flip the the dough dough , , cover cover and and let let rise rise for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until almost almost doubled doubled . . To To Make Make Filling Filling : : While While dough dough is is rising rising , , combine combine the the ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , pepperoni pepperoni , , mushrooms mushrooms and and basil basil leaves leaves in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix well well , , cover cover bowl bowl and and refrigerate refrigerate to to chill chill . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . When When dough dough is is ready ready , , punch punch it it down down and and separate separate it it into into 2 2 equal equal parts parts . . Roll Roll parts parts out out into into thin thin circles circles on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface . . Fill Fill each each circle circle with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the cheese/meat cheese/meat filling filling and and fold fold over over , , securing securing edges edges by by folding folding in in and and pressing pressing with with a a fork fork . . Brush Brush the the top top of of each each calzone calzone with with egg egg and and place place on on a a lightly lightly greased greased cookie cookie sheet sheet . . Bake Bake at at 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
8 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 loaf loaf French French bread bread , , toasted toasted and and sliced sliced | | In In a a bowl bowl , , toss toss together together the the tomatoes tomatoes , , basil basil , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and garlic garlic . . Mix Mix in in the the balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , olive olive oil oil , , kosher kosher salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Serve Serve on on toasted toasted bread bread slices slices . 
1 pound pound sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage , , sliced sliced 3/4 3/4 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced onion onion 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 ( ( 6.5 6.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon fennel fennel seed seed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | In In a a large large pot pot or or Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook the the sausage sausage , , beef beef , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic until until well well browned browned ; ; drain drain fat fat . . Stir Stir in in crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato paste paste , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and water water . . Mix Mix in in sugar sugar and and season season with with basil basil , , fennel fennel seed seed , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 32 32 ounces ounces cottage cottage cheese cheese 3 3 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried parsley parsley salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 9 9 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat brown brown the the ground ground beef beef . . Drain Drain the the grease grease . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce and and simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the cottage cottage cheese cheese , , 2 2 cups cups of of the the mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , eggs eggs , , half half of of the the grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , dried dried parsley parsley , , salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . To To assemble assemble , , in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish evenly evenly spread spread 3/4 3/4 cup cup of of the the sauce sauce mixture mixture . . Cover Cover with with 3 3 uncooked uncooked lasagna lasagna noodles noodles , , 1 1 3/4 3/4 cup cup of of the the cheese cheese mixture mixture , , and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup sauce sauce . . Repeat Repeat layers layers twice twice . . Top Top with with 3 3 noodles noodles , , remaining remaining sauce sauce , , remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water to to the the edges edges of of the the pan pan . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated 350 350 degree degree F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven for for 45 45 minutes minutes . . Uncover Uncover and and bake bake an an additional additional 10 10 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
3/4 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 3/4 3/4 cup cup Italian Italian seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix the the mayonnaise mayonnaise , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and garlic garlic powder powder . . Place Place bread bread crumbs crumbs in in a a separate separate bowl bowl . . Dip Dip chicken chicken into into the the mayonnaise mayonnaise mixture mixture , , then then into into the the bread bread crumbs crumbs to to coat coat . . Arrange Arrange coated coated chicken chicken on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until chicken chicken juices juices run run clear clear and and coating coating is is golden golden brown brown . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 29 29 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 12 12 ounces ounces cottage cottage cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 16 16 ounces ounces shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat cook cook the the ground ground beef beef , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic until until brown brown . . Add Add the the tomato tomato sauce sauce , , tomato tomato paste paste , , salt salt , , and and oregano oregano and and stir stir until until well well incorporated incorporated . . Cook Cook until until heated heated through through . . In In a a large large bowl bowl mix mix together together the the cottage cottage cheese cheese , , grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , and and shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Spoon Spoon a a layer layer of of the the meat meat mixture mixture onto onto the the bottom bottom of of the the slow slow cooker cooker . . Add Add a a double double layer layer of of the the uncooked uncooked lasagna lasagna noodles noodles . . Break Break to to fit fit noodles noodles into into slow slow cooker cooker . . Top Top noodles noodles with with a a portion portion of of the the cheese cheese mixture mixture . . Repeat Repeat the the layering layering of of sauce sauce , , noodles noodles , , and and cheese cheese until until all all the the ingredients ingredients are are used used . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on LOW LOW setting setting for for 4 4 to to 6 6 hours hours . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 pounds pounds Italian Italian sausage sausage links links , , cut cut into into 2-inch 2-inch pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup olive olive oil oil 4 4 large large potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and thickly thickly sliced sliced 2 2 large large green green bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and cut cut into into wedges wedges 2 2 large large red red bell bell peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and cut cut into into wedges wedges 3 3 large large onions onions , , cut cut into into wedges wedges 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1/2 1/2 cup cup chicken chicken stock stock 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and cook cook and and stir stir the the sausage sausage until until browned browned . . Transfer Transfer the the cooked cooked sausage sausage to to a a large large baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of olive olive oil oil into into the the skillet skillet , , and and cook cook the the potatoes potatoes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until browned browned , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Place Place the the potatoes potatoes into into the the baking baking dish dish , , leaving leaving some some oil oil . . Cook Cook and and stir stir the the green green and and red red peppers peppers and and onions onions in in the the hot hot skillet skillet until until they they are are beginning beginning to to soften soften , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the vegetables vegetables to to the the baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour wine wine and and chicken chicken stock stock over over the the vegetables vegetables and and sausage sausage , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Gently Gently stir stir the the sausage sausage , , potatoes potatoes , , and and vegetables vegetables together together . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until hot hot and and bubbling bubbling , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve hot hot . 
1 pound pound spaghetti spaghetti 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 2 2 ounce ounce ) ) can can anchovy anchovy fillets fillets , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup fine fine bread bread crumbs crumbs 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a medium medium skillet skillet , , heat heat olive olive oil oil over over medium medium heat heat and and add add garlic garlic and and anchovies anchovies to to cook cook for for about about 2 2 minutes minutes ; ; stir stir constantly constantly . . Stir Stir in in breadcrumbs breadcrumbs and and turn turn off off heat heat . . Add Add parsley parsley and and black black ground ground pepper pepper ; ; mix mix together together . . Toss Toss anchovy anchovy sauce sauce with with hot hot pasta pasta and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cheese cheese ; ; serve serve . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 3/4 3/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 3 3 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano , , divided divided 1 1 dried dried bay bay leaf leaf salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound ground ground round round 1/2 1/2 cup cup Italian Italian seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 eggs eggs , , lightly lightly beaten beaten 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package uncooked uncooked spaghetti spaghetti | | Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , and and cook cook the the onion onion until until lightly lightly brown brown . . Mix Mix in in 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , and and cook cook 1 1 minute minute . . Stir Stir in in crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato paste paste , , water water , , sugar sugar , , 1/2 1/2 the the oregano oregano , , and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer while while preparing preparing meatballs meatballs . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix the the ground ground round round , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , remaining remaining oregano oregano , , remaining remaining garlic garlic , , parsley parsley , , eggs eggs , , and and cheese cheese . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Roll Roll into into 1 1 inch inch balls balls , , and and drop drop into into the the sauce sauce . . Cook Cook 40 40 minutes minutes in in the the sauce sauce , , or or until until internal internal temperature temperature of of meatballs meatballs reaches reaches a a minimum minimum of of 160 160 degrees degrees F F ( ( 72 72 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil , , and and stir stir in in the the spaghetti spaghetti . . Cook Cook 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , until until al al dente dente , , and and drain drain . . Serve Serve the the meatballs meatballs and and sauce sauce over over the the cooked cooked spaghetti spaghetti . 
6 egg egg yolks yolks 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups mascarpone mascarpone cheese cheese 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 2 2 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages ladyfingers ladyfingers 1/3 1/3 cup cup coffee coffee flavored flavored liqueur liqueur 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder , , for for dusting dusting 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) square square semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate | | Combine Combine egg egg yolks yolks and and sugar sugar in in the the top top of of a a double double boiler boiler , , over over boiling boiling water water . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and cook cook for for about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and whip whip yolks yolks until until thick thick and and lemon lemon colored colored . . Add Add mascarpone mascarpone to to whipped whipped yolks yolks . . Beat Beat until until combined combined . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , whip whip cream cream to to stiff stiff peaks peaks . . Gently Gently fold fold into into yolk yolk mixture mixture and and set set aside aside . . Split Split the the lady lady fingers fingers in in half half , , and and line line the the bottom bottom and and sides sides of of a a large large glass glass bowl bowl . . Brush Brush with with coffee coffee liqueur liqueur . . Spoon Spoon half half of of the the cream cream filling filling over over the the lady lady fingers fingers . . Repeat Repeat ladyfingers ladyfingers , , coffee coffee liqueur liqueur and and filling filling layers layers . . Garnish Garnish with with cocoa cocoa and and chocolate chocolate curls curls . . Refrigerate Refrigerate several several hours hours or or overnight overnight . . To To make make the the chocolate chocolate curls curls , , use use a a vegetable vegetable peeler peeler and and run run it it down down the the edge edge of of the the chocolate chocolate bar bar . 
1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) whole whole chicken chicken , , rinsed rinsed salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 small small onion onion , , quartered quartered 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh rosemary rosemary | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Season Season chicken chicken with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Stuff Stuff with with the the onion onion and and rosemary rosemary . . Place Place chicken chicken in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish or or roasting roasting dish dish . . Roast Roast in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 2 2 to to 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Cooking Cooking time time will will vary vary a a bit bit depending depending on on the the size size of of the the bird bird . 
1 cup cup warm warm water water ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees F/45 F/45 degrees degrees C C ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar 2 2 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons active active dry dry yeast yeast 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour | | Stir Stir water water , , sugar sugar and and yeast yeast together together until until dissolved dissolved . . Add Add the the olive olive oil oil and and the the salt salt . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour until until well well blended blended . . Let Let dough dough rest rest for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Pat Pat dough dough into into pan pan or or on on to to a a pizza pizza stone stone using using fingers fingers dipped dipped in in olive olive oil oil . . If If desired desired sprinkle sprinkle basil basil , , thyme thyme or or other other seasonings seasonings on on crust crust . . Top Top with with your your favorite favorite pizza pizza toppings toppings and and bake bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in a a preheated preheated 425 425 degree degree oven oven . 
12 ounces ounces spaghetti spaghetti 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onions onions 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell peppers peppers 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mild mild Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti , , and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente . . Drain Drain , , and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , saute saute the the onions onions , , green green peppers peppers and and ground ground beef beef . . Once Once beef beef is is brown brown and and onions onions and and peppers peppers softened softened , , add add the the tomatoes tomatoes , , mushrooms mushrooms and and oregano oregano . . Simmer Simmer uncovered uncovered for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Place Place half half of of the the cooked cooked spaghetti spaghetti into into the the prepared prepared dish dish . . Top Top with with half half of of the the meat meat mixture mixture . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with 1 1 cup cup of of the the mild mild Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup and and water water until until smooth smooth ; ; pour pour over over casserole casserole . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package penne penne pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into thin thin strips strips 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups heavy heavy cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup pesto pesto 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat butter butter and and olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute chicken chicken and and garlic garlic until until chicken chicken is is almost almost cooked cooked . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and stir stir in in salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cream cream , , pesto pesto and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Cook Cook until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . Stir Stir in in cooked cooked pasta pasta . 
4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 4 4 ( ( 1 1 inch inch thick thick ) ) pork pork chops chops 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon fresh fresh ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed dried dried rosemary rosemary 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced | | In In a a large large skillet skillet , , melt melt butter butter over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook chops chops in in butter butter , , turning turning once once to to brown brown evenly evenly . . Pour Pour in in wine wine , , and and season season with with salt salt , , pepper pepper , , rosemary rosemary , , and and garlic garlic . . Simmer Simmer , , uncovered uncovered , , for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until chops chops are are tender tender . . Transfer Transfer pork pork chops chops to to serving serving plates plates , , and and spoon spoon sauce sauce over over the the meat meat . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 small small green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper | | Combine Combine ground ground beef beef , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and green green pepper pepper in in a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until meat meat is is brown brown and and vegetables vegetables are are tender tender . . Drain Drain grease grease . . Stir Stir diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and tomato tomato paste paste into into the the pan pan . . Season Season with with oregano oregano , , basil basil , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Simmer Simmer spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce for for 1 1 hour hour , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package spaghetti spaghetti , , broken broken into into pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sherry sherry 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add spaghetti spaghetti , , and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , in in a a large large saucepan saucepan , , melt melt butter butter over over low low heat heat . . Stir Stir in in flour flour , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring , , until until smooth smooth . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and gradually gradually stir stir in in chicken chicken broth broth and and cream cream . . Return Return to to heat heat , , and and bring bring to to a a low low boil boil for for 1 1 minute minute , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . Add Add sherry sherry , , then then stir stir in in cooked cooked spaghetti spaghetti , , mushrooms mushrooms , , and and chicken chicken . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish , , and and top top with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Bake Bake 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until bubbly bubbly and and lightly lightly browned browned . 
3/4 cup cup butter butter 2 2 onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh parsley parsley , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried thyme thyme 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white wine wine 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds large large shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds bay bay scallops scallops 18 18 small small clams clams 18 18 mussels mussels , , cleaned cleaned and and debearded debearded 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups crabmeat crabmeat 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds cod cod fillets fillets , , cubed cubed | | Over Over medium-low medium-low heat heat melt melt butter butter in in a a large large stockpot stockpot , , add add onions onions , , garlic garlic and and parsley parsley . . Cook Cook slowly slowly , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until onions onions are are soft soft . . Add Add tomatoes tomatoes to to the the pot pot ( ( break break them them into into chunks chunks as as you you add add them them ) ) . . Add Add chicken chicken broth broth , , bay bay leaves leaves , , basil basil , , thyme thyme , , oregano oregano , , water water and and wine wine . . Mix Mix well well . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer 30 30 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the shrimp shrimp , , scallops scallops , , clams clams , , mussels mussels and and crabmeat crabmeat . . Stir Stir in in fish fish , , if if desired desired . . Bring Bring to to boil boil . . Lower Lower heat heat , , cover cover and and simmer simmer 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes until until clams clams open open . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into bowls bowls and and serve serve with with warm warm , , crusty crusty bread bread ! 
1 pound pound sweet sweet Italian Italian sausage sausage 3/4 3/4 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced onion onion 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 ( ( 6.5 6.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans canned canned tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon fennel fennel seeds seeds 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 12 12 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 16 16 ounces ounces ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 egg egg 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 3/4 3/4 pound pound mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , sliced sliced 3/4 3/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | In In a a Dutch Dutch oven oven , , cook cook sausage sausage , , ground ground beef beef , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic over over medium medium heat heat until until well well browned browned . . Stir Stir in in crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato paste paste , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , and and water water . . Season Season with with sugar sugar , , basil basil , , fennel fennel seeds seeds , , Italian Italian seasoning seasoning , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons parsley parsley . . Simmer Simmer , , covered covered , , for for about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in boiling boiling water water for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain noodles noodles , , and and rinse rinse with with cold cold water water . . In In a a mixing mixing bowl bowl , , combine combine ricotta ricotta cheese cheese with with egg egg , , remaining remaining parsley parsley , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . To To assemble assemble , , spread spread 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of meat meat sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Arrange Arrange 6 6 noodles noodles lengthwise lengthwise over over meat meat sauce sauce . . Spread Spread with with one one half half of of the the ricotta ricotta cheese cheese mixture mixture . . Top Top with with a a third third of of mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese slices slices . . Spoon Spoon 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups meat meat sauce sauce over over mozzarella mozzarella , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layers layers , , and and top top with with remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Cover Cover with with foil foil : : to to prevent prevent sticking sticking , , either either spray spray foil foil with with cooking cooking spray spray , , or or make make sure sure the the foil foil does does not not touch touch the the cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove foil foil , , and and bake bake an an additional additional 25 25 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool for for 15 15 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package uncooked uncooked farfalle farfalle pasta pasta 1 1 pound pound hot hot Italian Italian turkey turkey sausage sausage , , cut cut into into 1/2 1/2 inch inch slices slices 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 small small zucchini zucchini , , chopped chopped 2 2 small small yellow yellow squash squash , , chopped chopped 6 6 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 20 20 leaves leaves fresh fresh basil basil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Place Place farfalle farfalle in in pot pot and and cook cook 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Place Place sausage sausage in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat and and cook cook until until evenly evenly brown brown ; ; set set aside aside . . Heat Heat 1/4 1/4 cup cup oil oil in in skillet skillet . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and onion onion , , and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Mix Mix in in zucchini zucchini , , squash squash , , tomatoes tomatoes , , bell bell pepper pepper and and basil basil . . Dissolve Dissolve bouillon bouillon in in the the mixture mixture . . Season Season with with red red pepper pepper . . Stir Stir in in remaining remaining oil oil . . Continue Continue cooking cooking 10 10 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix pasta pasta , , sausage sausage and and cheese cheese into into skillet skillet . . Continue Continue cooking cooking 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until heated heated through through . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 ( ( 25 25 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen cheese cheese ravioli ravioli 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Crumble Crumble the the ground ground beef beef into into a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until no no longer longer pink pink . . Drain Drain grease grease , , then then stir stir in in the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce and and tomatoes tomatoes . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of the the sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of an an 11x7 11x7 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Arrange Arrange 1/2 1/2 of of the the ravioli ravioli over over the the sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1/2 1/2 of of the the mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese over over the the ravioli ravioli . . Repeat Repeat layers layers , , ending ending with with the the last last of of the the sauce sauce on on top top . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese over over the the top top before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound fettuccini fettuccini pasta pasta 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 pound pound cooked cooked shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled and and deveined deveined 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley salt salt to to taste taste | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , cook cook and and stir stir shrimp shrimp and and garlic garlic in in the the butter butter for for about about one one minute minute . . Pour Pour in in half half and and half half ; ; stir stir . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese in in one one tablespoon tablespoon at at a a time time , , stirring stirring constantly constantly . . After After all all Parmesan Parmesan is is added added , , mix mix in in parsley parsley and and salt salt . . Stir Stir frequently frequently making making sure sure it it does does not not boil boil . . Sauce Sauce will will take take a a while while to to thicken thicken . . When When sauce sauce has has thickened thickened , , combine combine with with cooked cooked pasta pasta noodles noodles ; ; serve serve hot hot . 
3 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 6 6 uncooked uncooked lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 1 1 cube cube chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 1/4 1/4 cup cup hot hot water water 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 26 26 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce | | Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook lasagna lasagna noodles noodles for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until al al dente dente . . Drain Drain , , rinse rinse with with cold cold water water , , and and set set aside aside . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , place place the the chicken chicken in in a a saucepan saucepan with with enough enough water water to to cover cover , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove from from saucepan saucepan , , and and shred shred . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Dissolve Dissolve the the bouillon bouillon cube cube in in hot hot water water . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix the the chicken chicken with with the the bouillon bouillon , , cream cream cheese cheese , , and and 1 1 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover with with the the chicken chicken mixture mixture , , and and top top with with 3 3 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles ; ; repeat repeat . . Top Top with with remaining remaining sauce sauce , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese . . Bake Bake for for 45 45 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , quartered quartered then then halved halved 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 29 29 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 5 5 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried basil basil 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cannellini cannellini beans beans 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can navy navy beans beans 1/3 1/3 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 pound pound ditalini ditalini pasta pasta | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook onion onion in in olive olive oil oil until until translucent translucent . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Reduce Reduce heat heat , , and and stir stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce , , water water , , parsley parsley , , basil basil , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , cannelini cannelini beans beans , , navy navy beans beans and and Parmesan Parmesan . . Simmer Simmer 1 1 hour hour . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Stir Stir into into soup soup . 
1 pint pint heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan combine combine whipping whipping cream cream , , butter butter or or margarine margarine , , and and grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . . Cook Cook over over medium medium low low heat heat until until smooth smooth . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Sauce Sauce will will thicken thicken upon upon standing standing . 
3 cups cups packed packed fresh fresh basil basil leaves leaves 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic 3/4 3/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup pine pine nuts nuts 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Combine Combine basil basil , , garlic garlic , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , olive olive oil oil , , and and nuts nuts in in the the bowl bowl of of a a food food processor processor or or blender blender . . Blend Blend to to a a smooth smooth paste paste . . Add Add parsley parsley if if desired desired . 
1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 2 2 yellow yellow onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried basil basil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Blend Blend the the stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes and and crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes in in a a blender blender . . In In a a stock stock pot pot or or large large kettle kettle , , brown brown the the ground ground beef beef with with the the onions onions , , peppers peppers , , garlic garlic . . Pour Pour in in tomatoes tomatoes , , and and reduce reduce heat heat . . Add Add sugar sugar , , basil basil and and oregano oregano , , and and simmer simmer about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry penne penne pasta pasta 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 pound pound mild mild Italian Italian sausage sausage 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet . . Place Place sausage sausage and and onion onion in in the the skillet skillet and and cook cook over over medium medium high high heat heat until until evenly evenly brown brown . . Drain Drain excess excess fat fat . . Pour Pour in in wine wine , , and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute , , stirring stirring , , to to deglaze deglaze the the pan pan . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and tomato tomato paste paste . . Simmer Simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Toss Toss with with cooked cooked pasta pasta , , and and place place in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle top top with with mozzarella mozzarella . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . 
1 pound pound extra-lean extra-lean ground ground beef beef 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1/4 1/4 cup cup dried dried bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced onion onion 2 2 1/2 1/2 quarts quarts chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups spinach spinach - - packed packed , , rinsed rinsed and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup seashell seashell pasta pasta 3/4 3/4 cup cup diced diced carrots carrots | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine the the beef beef , , egg egg , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , cheese cheese , , basil basil and and onion onion . . Shape Shape mixture mixture into into 3/4-inch 3/4-inch balls balls and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large stockpot stockpot heat heat chicken chicken broth broth to to boiling boiling ; ; stir stir in in the the spinach spinach , , pasta pasta , , carrot carrot and and meatballs meatballs . . Return Return to to boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , at at a a slow slow boil boil for for 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until pasta pasta is is al al dente dente , , and and meatballs meatballs are are no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . Serve Serve hot hot with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese sprinkled sprinkled on on top top . 
1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) loaf loaf frozen frozen bread bread dough dough , , thawed thawed 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 4 4 ounces ounces sliced sliced pepperoni pepperoni sausage sausage 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons Italian Italian seasoning seasoning | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Roll Roll frozen frozen bread bread dough dough out out into into a a rectangle rectangle . . Brush Brush dough dough with with beaten beaten egg egg . . Arrange Arrange pepperoni pepperoni , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and parmesan parmesan cheese cheese over over the the dough dough . . Sprinkle Sprinkle on on the the Italian Italian seasoning seasoning . . Roll Roll up up dough dough like like a a jelly jelly roll roll and and pinch pinch seam seam to to seal seal ; ; place place , , seam seam side side down down , , on on prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden . 
Gnocchi : : 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2 2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed Sauce Sauce : : 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 dash dash crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ( ( optional optional ) ) 6 6 basil basil leaves leaves , , finely finely shredded shredded Salt Salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 8 8 ounces ounces fresh fresh mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks | | Stir Stir together together the the ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , eggs eggs , , Parmesan Parmesan Cheese Cheese , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and garlic garlic powder powder in in a a large large bowl bowl until until evenly evenly combined combined . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 cup cup of of flour flour . . Add Add additional additional flour flour if if needed needed to to form form a a soft soft dough dough . . Divide Divide the the dough dough into into 3 3 or or 4 4 pieces pieces , , and and roll roll into into 1/2-inch-thick 1/2-inch-thick ropes ropes on on a a floured floured surface surface . . Cut Cut each each rope rope into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces , , and and place place on on a a lightly lightly floured floured baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place in in the the refrigerator refrigerator until until ready ready to to use use . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in garlic garlic , , and and cook cook until until softened softened and and fragrant fragrant , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour in in diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; bring bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and cook cook for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in shredded shredded basil basil and and season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . While While sauce sauce is is simmering simmering , , bring bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat . . Boil Boil the the gnocchi gnocchi until until they they float float to to the the surface surface , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes , , then then drain drain . . To To assemble assemble the the dish dish , , stir stir the the cubed cubed mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese into into the the sauce sauce and and allow allow the the heat heat of of the the sauce sauce to to soften soften , , but but not not melt melt the the cheese cheese . . Place Place gnocchi gnocchi into into a a serving serving bowl bowl , , and and spoon spoon sauce sauce overtop overtop . 
1 pound pound rigatoni rigatoni pasta pasta 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 pound pound Italian Italian sausage sausage 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can mushrooms mushrooms , , drained drained 2 2 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) jars jars spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese thinly thinly sliced sliced pepperoni pepperoni | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to boil boil . . Pour Pour in in rigatoni rigatoni , , and and cook cook until until al al dente dente , , about about 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , and and set set pasta pasta aside aside . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , brown brown ground ground beef beef and and italian italian sausage sausage in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . With With a a slotted slotted spoon spoon , , remove remove beef beef and and sausage sausage to to a a baking baking dish dish . . Stir Stir mushrooms mushrooms , , spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce , , and and cooked cooked pasta pasta into into the the baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle cheese cheese and and pepperoni pepperoni over over the the top top . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until the the cheese cheese is is brown brown and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . 
2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 envelope envelope Fleischmann's速 Fleischmann's速 RapidRise RapidRise Yeast* Yeast* 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cup cup very very warm warm water water ( ( 120 120 degrees degrees F F to to 130 130 degrees degrees F F ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive or or vegetable vegetable oil oil Cornmeal Cornmeal | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine 2 2 cups cups flour flour , , undissolved undissolved yeast yeast , , and and salt salt . . Stir Stir very very warm warm water water and and olive olive oil oil into into flour flour mixture mixture . . Stir Stir in in enough enough remaining remaining flour flour to to make make soft soft dough dough . . Knead Knead on on lightly lightly floured floured surface surface until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic , , about about 4 4 to to 6 6 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover ; ; let let rest rest on on floured floured surface surface 10 10 minutes minutes . . Lightly Lightly oil oil 1 1 ( ( 14-inch 14-inch ) ) or or 2 2 ( ( 12-inch 12-inch ) ) round round pizza pizza pan pan ( ( s s ) ) . . ** ** Sprinkle Sprinkle with with cornmeal cornmeal . . Shape Shape dough dough into into smooth smooth ball ball . . Divide Divide and and roll roll dough dough to to fit fit desired desired pan pan ( ( s s ) ) . . Top Top pizza pizza as as desired desired . . Bake Bake at at 400 400 degrees degrees F F for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until done done . . Baking Baking time time depends depends on on size size and and thickness thickness of of crust crust and and selected selected toppings toppings . 
2 large large tomatoes tomatoes , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 sweet sweet onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) loaf loaf Italian Italian bread bread , , cut cut into into 1 1 inch inch slices slices 1/4 1/4 cup cup freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , olive olive oil oil , , oregano oregano , , basil basil and and parsley parsley . . Place Place bread bread on on a a baking baking sheet sheet , , and and top top with with tomato tomato mixture mixture . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with Parmesan Parmesan . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until bottom bottom of of bread bread is is browned browned . . Allow Allow to to cool cool 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
4 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets tilapia tilapia salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , pressed pressed 4 4 fresh fresh basil basil leaves leaves , , chopped chopped 1 1 large large tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup white white wine wine | | Preheat Preheat a a grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Place Place the the tilapia tilapia fillets fillets side side by by side side on on a a large large piece piece of of aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Season Season each each one one with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Place Place one one tablespoon tablespoon of of butter butter on on top top of of each each piece piece of of fish fish , , and and sprinkle sprinkle garlic garlic , , basil basil and and tomato tomato . . Pour Pour the the wine wine over over everything everything . . Fold Fold foil foil up up around around fish fish , , and and seal seal into into a a packet packet . . Place Place packet packet on on a a cookie cookie sheet sheet for for ease ease in in transportation transportation to to and and from from the the grill grill . . Place Place foil foil packet packet on on the the preheated preheated grill grill , , and and cook cook for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork . . Open Open the the packet packet carefully carefully so so as as not not to to get get burned burned from from the the steam steam , , and and serve serve . 
20 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh spinach spinach 3 3 cups cups ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 2/3 2/3 cup cup grated grated Romano Romano cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 egg egg 3 3 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 3 3 cups cups tomato tomato pasta pasta sauce sauce 1 1 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add lasagna lasagna noodles noodles and and cook cook for for 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes or or until until al al dente dente ; ; drain drain . . In In a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , cook cook mushrooms mushrooms , , onions onions , , and and garlic garlic in in olive olive oil oil until until onions onions are are tender tender . . Drain Drain excess excess liquid liquid and and cool cool . . Boil Boil spinach spinach for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , then then squeeze squeeze out out excess excess liquid liquid . . Chop Chop spinach spinach . . Combine Combine ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , Romano Romano cheese cheese , , spinach spinach , , salt salt , , oregano oregano , , basil basil , , pepper pepper , , and and egg egg in in a a bowl bowl . . Add Add cooled cooled mushroom mushroom mixture mixture . . Beat Beat with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on low low speed speed for for 1 1 minute minute . . Lay Lay 5 5 lasagna lasagna noodles noodles in in bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread one one third third of of the the cheese/spinach cheese/spinach mixture mixture over over noodles noodles . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 1 1 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese and and 1/3 1/3 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese on on top top . . Spread Spread 1 1 cup cup pasta pasta sauce sauce over over cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layering layering 2 2 times times . . Cover Cover dish dish with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and bake bake in in a a preheated preheated oven oven for for 1 1 hour hour . . Cool Cool 15 15 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1/4 cup cup fine fine dry dry bread bread crumbs crumbs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cornmeal cornmeal 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Italian Italian seasoning seasoning 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 4 4 ( ( 3 3 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets cod cod fillets fillets 1 1 egg egg white white , , lightly lightly beaten beaten | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small shallow shallow bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the bread bread crumbs crumbs , , cheese cheese , , cornmeal cornmeal , , oil oil , , italian italian seasoning seasoning , , garlic garlic powder powder and and pepper pepper ; ; set set aside aside . . Coat Coat the the rack rack of of a a broiling broiling pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Place Place the the cod cod on on the the rack rack , , folding folding under under any any thin thin edges edges of of the the filets filets . . Brush Brush with with the the egg egg white white , , then then spoon spoon the the crumb crumb mixture mixture evenly evenly on on top top . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated oven oven for for 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes or or until until the the fish fish flakes flakes easily easily when when tested tested with with a a fork fork and and is is opaque opaque all all the the way way through through . 
2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour for for coating coating 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) chicken chicken , , cut cut into into pieces pieces 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white wine wine 2 2 cups cups fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms , , quartered quartered salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Combine Combine the the flour flour , , salt salt and and pepper pepper in in a a plastic plastic bag bag . . Shake Shake the the chicken chicken pieces pieces in in flour flour until until coated coated . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet ( ( one one that that has has a a cover/lid cover/lid ) ) . . Fry Fry the the chicken chicken pieces pieces until until they they are are browned browned on on both both sides sides . . Remove Remove from from skillet skillet . . Add Add the the onion onion , , garlic garlic and and bell bell pepper pepper to to the the skillet skillet and and saute saute until until the the onion onion is is slightly slightly browned browned . . Return Return the the chicken chicken to to the the skillet skillet and and add add the the tomatoes tomatoes , , oregano oregano and and wine wine . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes over over medium medium low low heat heat . . Add Add the the mushrooms mushrooms and and salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Simmer Simmer for for 10 10 more more minutes minutes . 
2 tomatoes tomatoes , , cubed cubed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , crushed crushed seasoning seasoning salt salt to to taste taste ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix tomatoes tomatoes , , dried dried basil basil , , Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , seasoning seasoning salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Cover Cover and and chill chill in in the the refrigerator refrigerator 8 8 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight , , before before serving serving . 
Marinara Sauce Sauce : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 pinch pinch crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste Grinders Grinders : : 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 2 2 medium medium zucchini zucchini , , cubed cubed 1 1 pinch pinch red red pepper pepper flakes flakes salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 4 4 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) French French or or Italian Italian sandwich sandwich rolls rolls , , split split | | To To make make marinara marinara sauce sauce , , heat heat olive olive oil oil in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ( ( see see Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) . . Add Add garlic garlic , , basil basil and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; cook cook and and stir stir for for a a minute minute or or two two until until fragrant fragrant . . Stir Stir in in sugar sugar , , vinegar vinegar , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Pour Pour in in tomatoes tomatoes with with their their juices juices and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and puree puree until until smooth smooth in in food food processor processor or or blender blender . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook the the zucchini zucchini in in butter butter until until browned browned and and slightly slightly tender tender . . Season Season with with red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Spoon Spoon a a generous generous amount amount of of the the zucchini zucchini mixture mixture into into each each sandwich sandwich roll roll . . Cover Cover zucchini zucchini with with about about 1/4 1/4 cup cup marinara marinara sauce sauce per per roll roll . . Top Top with with a a handful handful of of shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella . . Close Close the the rolls rolls , , and and wrap wrap individually individually in in aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until bread bread is is heated heated through through , , rolls rolls are are soft soft , , and and cheese cheese is is melted melted . 
3 pounds pounds beef beef chuck chuck roast roast 3 3 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages dry dry Italian Italian salad salad dressing dressing mix mix 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar pepperoncini pepperoncini peppers peppers 8 8 hamburger hamburger buns buns , , split split | | Place Place the the roast roast into into a a slow slow cooker cooker , , and and season season with with Italian Italian dressing dressing mix mix . . Pour Pour in in the the water water . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on High High for for 6 6 to to 7 7 hours hours . . During During the the last last hour hour , , shred shred the the meat meat with with two two forks forks - - if if it it does does not not shred shred easily easily , , cook cook longer longer . . Add Add the the peppers peppers , , and and as as much much of of the the juice juice as as you you like like for for additional additional flavor flavor . . Serve Serve on on buns buns . 
Lemon Butter Butter Sauce Sauce : : 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white wine wine 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice 5 5 tablespoons tablespoons heavy heavy cream cream 1 1 cup cup butter butter , , chilled chilled salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste Chicken Chicken and and Pasta Pasta : : 1/2 1/2 pound pound dry dry farfalle farfalle ( ( bow bow tie tie ) ) pasta pasta 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - pounded pounded to to 1/4 1/4 inch inch thickness thickness 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 4 4 ounces ounces bacon bacon 6 6 ounces ounces mushrooms mushrooms , , sliced sliced 6 6 ounces ounces artichoke artichoke hearts hearts , , drained drained and and halved halved 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons capers capers , , drained drained chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley for for garnish garnish | | To To make make the the sauce sauce , , pour pour the the wine wine and and lemon lemon juice juice into into a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook at at a a low low boil boil until until the the liquid liquid is is reduced reduced by by 1/3 1/3 . . Stir Stir in in cream cream , , and and simmer simmer until until it it thickens thickens . . Gradually Gradually add add the the butter butter 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon at at a a time time to to the the sauce sauce , , stirring stirring until until completely completely incorporated incorporated . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and keep keep warm warm . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to boil boil . . Add Add pasta pasta , , and and cook cook until until al al dente dente , , about about 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain , , and and set set aside aside . . To To make make the the chicken chicken , , heat heat oil oil and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . In In a a bowl bowl , , stir stir together together flour flour , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Lightly Lightly coat coat chicken chicken with with flour flour mixture mixture . . Without Without crowding crowding , , carefully carefully place place chicken chicken in in hot hot oil oil . . ( ( If If necessary necessary , , cook cook in in batches batches . . ) ) Fry Fry until until cooked cooked through through and and golden golden brown brown on on both both sides sides . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken to to paper paper towels towels . . Stir Stir the the bacon bacon , , mushrooms mushrooms , , artichokes artichokes , , and and capers capers into into the the oil oil ; ; cook cook until until the the mushrooms mushrooms are are soft soft . . Cut Cut the the chicken chicken breasts breasts into into bite-size bite-size strips strips , , and and return return them them to to the the skillet skillet . . Stir Stir half half of of the the lemon lemon butter butter sauce sauce into into the the chicken chicken mixture mixture . . To To serve serve , , place place pasta pasta in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Stir Stir the the chicken chicken mixture mixture into into the the pasta pasta . . Taste Taste , , and and adjust adjust seasonings seasonings . . Stir Stir in in additional additional lemon lemon butter butter sauce sauce as as desired desired . . Toss Toss well well , , and and garnish garnish with with parsley parsley . 
1/2 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 pound pound Italian Italian sausage sausage , , casings casings removed removed 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar marinara marinara sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can Italian-style Italian-style diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , undrained undrained 1 1 ( ( 9 9 ounce ounce ) ) package package refrigerated refrigerated or or fresh fresh cheese cheese tortellini tortellini 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Crumble Crumble the the ground ground beef beef and and Italian Italian sausage sausage into into a a large large skillet skillet . . Cook Cook over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until browned browned . . Drain Drain . . Combine Combine the the ground ground meats meats , , marinara marinara sauce sauce , , mushrooms mushrooms , , and and tomatoes tomatoes in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on LOW LOW heat heat for for 7 7 to to 8 8 hours hours . . Stir Stir in in the the tortellini tortellini , , and and sprinkle sprinkle the the mozzarella mozzarella and and cheddar cheddar cheese cheese over over the the top top . . Cover Cover and and cook cook for for 15 15 more more minutes minutes on on LOW LOW , , or or until until the the tortellini tortellini is is tender tender . 
1 cup cup flat flat beer beer 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 1/4 1/4 teaspoons teaspoons yeast yeast | | Put Put beer beer , , butter butter , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , flour flour , , and and yeast yeast in in a a bread bread machine machine in in the the order order recommended recommended by by the the manufacturer manufacturer . . Select Select Dough Dough setting setting , , and and press press Start Start . . Remove Remove dough dough from from bread bread machine machine when when cycle cycle is is complete complete . . Roll Roll or or press press dough dough to to cover cover a a prepared prepared pizza pizza pan pan . . Brush Brush lightly lightly with with olive olive oil oil . . Cover Cover and and let let stand stand 15 15 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread sauce sauce and and toppings toppings on on top top of of dough dough . . Bake Bake until until crust crust is is lightly lightly brown brown and and crispy crispy on on the the outside outside , , about about 24 24 minutes minutes . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 small small red red onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 bunch bunch Swiss Swiss chard chard , , stems stems and and center center ribs ribs cut cut out out and and chopped chopped together together , , leaves leaves coarsely coarsely chopped chopped separately separately 1/2 1/2 cup cup dry dry white white wine wine 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons freshly freshly grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese salt salt to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Melt Melt butter butter and and olive olive oil oil together together in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the garlic garlic and and onion onion , , and and cook cook for for 30 30 seconds seconds until until fragrant fragrant . . Add Add the the chard chard stems stems and and the the white white wine wine . . Simmer Simmer until until the the stems stems begin begin to to soften soften , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the chard chard leaves leaves , , and and cook cook until until wilted wilted . . Finally Finally , , stir stir in in lemon lemon juice juice and and Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese ; ; season season to to taste taste with with salt salt if if needed needed . 
1/3 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 3/4 3/4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/3 1/3 cup cup unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup miniature miniature semisweet semisweet chocolate chocolate chips chips 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped walnuts walnuts 1 1 egg egg yolk yolk , , beaten beaten 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease baking baking sheets sheets , , or or line line with with parchment parchment paper paper . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , cream cream together together the the butter butter and and sugar sugar until until smooth smooth . . Beat Beat in in the the eggs eggs one one at at a a time time , , then then stir stir in in the the vanilla vanilla . . Combine Combine the the flour flour , , cocoa cocoa and and baking baking powder powder ; ; stir stir into into the the creamed creamed mixture mixture until until well well blended blended . . Dough Dough will will be be stiff stiff , , so so mix mix in in the the last last bit bit by by hand hand . . Mix Mix in in the the chocolate chocolate chips chips and and walnuts walnuts . . Divide Divide dough dough into into two two equal equal parts parts . . Shape Shape into into 9x2x1 9x2x1 inch inch loaves loaves . . Place Place onto onto baking baking sheet sheet 4 4 inches inches apart apart . . Brush Brush with with mixture mixture of of water water and and yolk yolk . . Bake Bake for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until firm firm . . Cool Cool on on baking baking sheet sheet for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Using Using a a serrated serrated knife knife , , slice slice the the loaves loaves diagonally diagonally into into 1 1 inch inch slices slices . . Return Return the the slices slices to to the the baking baking sheet sheet , , placing placing them them on on their their sides sides . . Bake Bake for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , or or until until dry dry . . Cool Cool completely completely and and store store in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) container container ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed and and squeezed squeezed dry dry 1/2 1/2 cup cup minced minced onion onion 1 1 egg egg 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese , , divided divided 2 2 ( ( 26 26 ounce ounce ) ) jars jars spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package manicotti manicotti shells shells | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine ricotta ricotta , , spinach spinach , , onion onion and and egg egg . . Season Season with with parsley parsley , , pepper pepper and and garlic garlic powder powder . . Mix Mix in in 1 1 cup cup mozzarella mozzarella and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup Parmesan Parmesan . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , stir stir together together spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce and and water water . . Spread Spread 1 1 cup cup sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Stuff Stuff uncooked uncooked manicotti manicotti shells shells with with ricotta ricotta mixture mixture , , and and arrange arrange in in a a single single layer layer in in the the dish dish . . Cover Cover with with remaining remaining sauce sauce . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with remaining remaining mozzarella mozzarella and and Parmesan Parmesan . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 45 45 to to 55 55 minutes minutes , , or or until until noodles noodles are are soft soft . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups Italian Italian seasoned seasoned bread bread crumbs crumbs 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 medium medium yellow yellow onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 egg egg , , beaten beaten 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 14.25 14.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato puree puree | | In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix the the ground ground beef beef , , bread bread crumbs crumbs , , parsley parsley , , garlic garlic , , onion onion , , and and egg egg . . Shape Shape the the mixture mixture into into 16 16 meatballs meatballs . . In In a a slow slow cooker cooker , , mix mix the the spaghetti spaghetti sauce sauce , , crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , and and tomato tomato puree puree . . Place Place the the meatballs meatballs into into the the sauce sauce mixture mixture . . Cook Cook on on Low Low for for 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours . 
1 cup cup vegetable vegetable broth broth 12 12 dehydrated dehydrated sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package uncooked uncooked penne penne pasta pasta 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pine pine nuts nuts 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh spinach spinach , , rinsed rinsed and and torn torn into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/4 1/4 cup cup grated grated Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese | | In In a a small small saucepan saucepan , , bring bring the the broth broth to to a a boil boil . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Place Place the the sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes in in the the broth broth 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until softened softened . . Drain Drain , , reserving reserving broth broth , , and and coarsely coarsely chop chop . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of lightly lightly salted salted water water to to a a boil boil . . Place Place penne penne pasta pasta in in the the pot pot , , cook cook 9 9 to to 12 12 minutes minutes , , until until al al dente dente , , and and drain drain . . Place Place the the pine pine nuts nuts in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until lightly lightly toasted toasted . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and saute saute the the garlic garlic 1 1 minute minute , , until until tender tender . . Mix Mix in in the the spinach spinach , , and and cook cook until until almost almost wilted wilted . . Pour Pour in in the the reserved reserved broth broth , , and and stir stir in in the the chopped chopped sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes . . Continue Continue cooking cooking 2 2 minutes minutes , , or or until until heated heated through through . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , toss toss the the cooked cooked pasta pasta with with the the spinach spinach and and tomato tomato mixture mixture and and pine pine nuts nuts . . Serve Serve with with Parmesan Parmesan cheese cheese . 
