2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cumin cumin seeds seeds 2 2 poblano poblano peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 Anaheim Anaheim peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and thinly thinly sliced sliced 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into chunks chunks 4 4 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 4 4 dried dried guajillo guajillo chiles chiles , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded 2 2 dried dried ancho ancho chiles chiles , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded 1 1 corn corn tortilla tortilla , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch strips strips 4 4 tomatoes tomatoes , , cut cut in in half half crosswise crosswise 3 3 tomatillos tomatillos , , cut cut in in half half crosswise crosswise 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , sliced sliced 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin seeds seeds 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth salt salt to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar , , or or more more to to taste taste 3 3 ounces ounces dark dark chocolate chocolate , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 12 12 corn corn tortillas tortillas 1/2 1/2 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup crumbled crumbled queso queso fresco fresco | | Melt Melt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard in in a a stockpot stockpot . . Stir Stir in in 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cumin cumin seeds seeds , , poblano poblano peppers peppers , , and and Anaheim Anaheim peppers peppers ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onions onions are are soft soft , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Add Add chicken chicken thighs thighs and and 4 4 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until reduced reduced , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth in in a a saucepan saucepan until until it it begins begins to to simmer simmer , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour broth broth into into a a blender blender . . Toast Toast guajillo guajillo chiles chiles and and ancho ancho chiles chiles in in a a dry dry skillet skillet on on medium-high medium-high heat heat until until hot hot and and aromatic aromatic , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Place Place toasted toasted chiles chiles and and tortilla tortilla strips strips in in the the blender blender with with the the hot hot broth broth . . Press Press them them down down so so they they are are fully fully submerged submerged and and soak soak until until softened softened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Blend Blend the the chile chile and and tortilla tortilla mixture mixture until until smooth smooth . . Cook Cook tomatoes tomatoes and and tomatillos tomatillos in in a a dry dry skillet skillet on on medium-high medium-high heat heat until until soft soft and and blackened blackened , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes per per side side . . Melt Melt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in 1/2 1/2 sliced sliced onion onion , , 5 5 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin seeds seeds ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onions onions are are soft soft and and golden golden , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Add Add onion onion mixture mixture to to the the blender blender with with the the chile chile mixture mixture and and blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour chile chile puree puree into into a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth , , salt salt , , sugar sugar , , and and chocolate chocolate . . Bring Bring mixture mixture to to a a simmer simmer ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until chocolate chocolate is is melted melted , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Toast Toast tortillas tortillas in in a a dry dry skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until golden golden and and soft soft , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Fill Fill each each tortilla tortilla with with 1/3 1/3 cup cup chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Roll Roll and and place place seam seam side side down down on on a a plate plate . . Continue Continue with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas , , 3 3 per per plate plate . . Top Top each each trio trio of of tortillas tortillas with with 1/3 1/3 cup cup mole mole sauce sauce , , 1 1 to to 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped cilantro cilantro , , and and 1 1 to to 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons queso queso fresco fresco . 
6 fluid fluid ounces ounces tequila tequila 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces triple triple sec sec 8 8 ounces ounces frozen frozen sliced sliced strawberries strawberries in in syrup syrup 4 4 fluid fluid ounces ounces frozen frozen limeade limeade concentrate concentrate | | Fill Fill a a blender blender with with ice ice and and crush crush . . Pour Pour in in the the tequila tequila and and triple triple sec sec . . Add Add the the strawberries strawberries and and limeade limeade . . Blend Blend for for 30 30 seconds seconds or or until until smooth smooth . . Serve Serve in in margarita margarita glasses glasses with with the the rims rims dipped dipped in in powdered powdered sugar sugar . 
3 avocados avocados - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted , , and and mashed mashed 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced onion onion 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper ( ( optional optional ) ) | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mash mash together together the the avocados avocados , , lime lime juice juice , , and and salt salt . . Mix Mix in in onion onion , , cilantro cilantro , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and garlic garlic . . Stir Stir in in cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Refrigerate Refrigerate 1 1 hour hour for for best best flavor flavor , , or or serve serve immediately immediately . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds cubed cubed pork pork stew stew meat meat salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 large large yellow yellow onion onion , , diced diced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped , , roasted roasted green green chiles chiles 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups tomatillo tomatillo salsa salsa 5 5 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cloves cloves | | Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a Dutch Dutch oven oven or or large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Season Season the the pork pork with with salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste , , then then place place into into the the hot hot oil oil . . Cook Cook until until golden golden brown brown on on all all sides sides , , about about 7 7 minutes minutes . . Once Once browned browned , , remove remove the the pork pork and and set set aside aside . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and stir stir in in the the onion onion and and garlic garlic . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion has has softened softened and and turned turned translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Return Return the the pork pork to to the the pot pot , , and and stir stir in in the the green green chiles chiles , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with juice juice , , tomatillo tomatillo salsa salsa , , and and chicken chicken broth broth . . Season Season with with oregano oregano and and clove clove . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 20 20 minutes minutes . . After After 20 20 minutes minutes , , remove remove 2 2 cups cups of of the the soup soup ( ( ensure ensure there there are are no no pork pork cubes cubes in in it it ) ) , , and and pour pour into into a a blender blender . . Hold Hold down down the the lid lid of of the the blender blender with with a a folded folded kitchen kitchen towel towel , , and and carefully carefully start start the the blender blender , , using using a a few few quick quick pulses pulses to to get get the the soup soup moving moving before before leaving leaving it it on on to to puree puree . . Puree Puree until until smooth smooth , , then then pour pour back back into into the the cooking cooking pot pot . . This This will will create create a a thicker thicker texture texture for for your your chili chili and and will will eliminate eliminate some some of of the the chunky chunky bits bits of of chiles chiles . . Continue Continue to to simmer simmer , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally until until the the pork pork is is very very tender tender , , at at least least 35 35 minutes minutes more more . 
6 fluid fluid ounces ounces tequila tequila 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces triple triple sec sec 8 8 ounces ounces frozen frozen sliced sliced strawberries strawberries in in syrup syrup 4 4 fluid fluid ounces ounces frozen frozen limeade limeade concentrate concentrate | | Fill Fill a a blender blender with with ice ice and and crush crush . . Pour Pour in in the the tequila tequila and and triple triple sec sec . . Add Add the the strawberries strawberries and and limeade limeade . . Blend Blend for for 30 30 seconds seconds or or until until smooth smooth . . Serve Serve in in margarita margarita glasses glasses with with the the rims rims dipped dipped in in powdered powdered sugar sugar . 
1 ( ( 3 3 1/2 1/2 ) ) pound pound boneless boneless pork pork shoulder shoulder , , trimmed trimmed and and cut cut into into 2 2 inch inch chunks chunks 2 2 oranges oranges , , quartered quartered 1 1 large large white white onion onion , , quartered quartered 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and crushed crushed 1/4 1/4 cup cup kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves | | Place Place the the pork pork shoulder shoulder , , oranges oranges , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , kosher kosher salt salt , , cumin cumin , , black black peppercorns peppercorns , , and and bay bay leaves leaves into into a a large large Dutch Dutch oven oven . . Add Add water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce the the heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Skim Skim off off any any foam foam that that rises rises to to the the top top . . Cover Cover loosely loosely , , and and simmer simmer until until the the meat meat is is tender tender , , about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Allow Allow the the pork pork to to cool cool , , covered covered , , in in the the broth broth for for 1 1 hour hour . . Shred Shred the the meat meat with with two two forks forks . 
2 cloves cloves garlic garlic 3 3 serrano serrano peppers peppers 1 1 pound pound small small green green tomatillos tomatillos , , husks husks removed removed 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 9 9 corn corn tortillas tortillas 3 3 cups cups water water 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1/2 1/2 store-bought store-bought rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken , , meat meat removed removed and and shredded shredded 1/4 1/4 head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce , , shredded shredded 1 1 cup cup cilantro cilantro leaves leaves 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container Mexican Mexican crema crema , , crema crema fresca fresca 1 1 cup cup grated grated cotija cotija cheese cheese | | Cover Cover a a large large griddle griddle with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and preheat preheat to to medium-high medium-high . . Cook Cook the the garlic garlic , , serrano serrano peppers peppers , , and and tomatillos tomatillos on on the the hot hot griddle griddle until until toasted toasted and and blackened blackened , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes for for the the garlic garlic , , 10 10 minutes minutes for for the the peppers peppers , , and and 15 15 minutes minutes for for the the tomatillos tomatillos . . Remove Remove to to a a bowl bowl and and allow allow to to cool cool . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a small small , , deep deep skillet skillet to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Using Using kitchen kitchen tongs tongs , , fry fry the the tortillas tortillas individually individually , , turning turning them them once once . . They They should should n't n't be be in in the the hot hot oil oil for for more more than than 5 5 seconds seconds per per side side . . Remove Remove excess excess oil oil with with paper paper towels towels and and keep keep warm warm . . Remember Remember that that the the hotter hotter the the oil oil , , the the less less that that the the tortillas tortillas will will absorb absorb . . Place Place the the toasted toasted garlic garlic , , serrano serrano peppers peppers , , tomatillos tomatillos , , and and the the water water in in a a blender blender and and blend blend until until smooth smooth ; ; pour pour into into a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Dissolve Dissolve the the chicken chicken bouillon bouillon into into the the mixture mixture , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and cook cook at at a a simmer simmer until until slightly slightly thickened thickened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . The The sauce sauce should should n't n't be be too too thick thick . . Soak Soak three three tortillas tortillas in in the the sauce sauce , , one one at at a a time time , , for for a a few few seconds seconds , , fill fill them them with with shredded shredded chicken chicken , , sprinkle sprinkle the the meat meat with with some some of of the the sauce sauce , , roll roll them them and and place place them them seam seam side side down down on on a a pasta pasta bowl bowl . . Spoon Spoon a a generous generous amount amount of of sauce sauce over over them them and and top top them them with with lettuce lettuce , , cilantro cilantro , , crema crema , , and and cotija cotija cheese cheese . . Pour Pour a a little little more more sauce sauce over over the the whole whole thing thing if if desired desired . . Repeat Repeat the the procedure procedure twice twice more more . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2/3 2/3 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon powdered powdered saffron saffron 3 3 cups cups water water | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , heat heat vegetable vegetable oil oil over over a a medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Place Place the the onions onions in in the the pan pan , , and and saute saute until until golden golden . . Add Add rice rice to to pan pan , , and and stir stir to to coat coat grains grains with with oil oil . . Mix Mix in in green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , salt salt , , garlic garlic , , saffron saffron , , and and water water . . Cover Cover , , bring bring to to a a boil boil , , and and then then reduce reduce heat heat to to simmer simmer . . Cook Cook for for 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until rice rice is is tender tender . . Stir Stir occasionally occasionally . 
2 1/2 1/2 cups cups fresh fresh corn corn kernels kernels 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound zucchini zucchini , , sliced sliced 3 3 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 fresh fresh poblano poblano chile chile pepper pepper - - seeded seeded , , deveined deveined , , and and chopped chopped salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup crumbled crumbled cotija cotija cheese cheese | | Place Place the the corn corn in in a a saucepan saucepan with with enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Place Place a a cover cover on on the the saucepan saucepan , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir the the onion onion and and garlic garlic in in the the hot hot oil oil until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix the the zucchini zucchini and and tomato tomato into into the the onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook together together 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the corn corn kernels kernels into into the the mixture mixture ; ; add add the the poblano poblano pepper pepper . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; stir stir . . Cover Cover the the skillet skillet with with a a lid lid and and cook cook until until the the zucchini zucchini is is tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with the the cotija cotija cheese cheese to to serve serve . 
1 cup cup butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 2 2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped almonds almonds 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , cream cream the the butter butter and and sugar sugar . . Stir Stir in in vanilla vanilla and and water water . . Add Add the the flour flour and and almonds almonds , , mix mix until until blended blended . . Cover Cover and and chill chill for for 3 3 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees . . Shape Shape dough dough into into balls balls or or crescents crescents . . Place Place on on an an unprepared unprepared cookie cookie sheet sheet and and bake bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Remove Remove from from pan pan to to cool cool on on wire wire racks racks . . When When cookies cookies are are cool cool , , roll roll in in confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Store Store at at room room temperature temperature in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
10 cups cups water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 2 2 cups cups dry dry pinto pinto beans beans , , rinsed rinsed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt | | Measure Measure water water and and lard lard into into a a large large pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and add add beans beans . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat for for 2 2 to to 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Season Season with with salt salt and and continue continue cooking cooking until until tender tender , , about about 30 30 more more minutes minutes . 
1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 3 3 avocados avocados , , peeled peeled and and pitted pitted 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Bring Bring water water and and sugar sugar to to a a boil boil together together in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; stir stir continually continually until until sugar sugar dissolves dissolves . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool . . Pour Pour sugar-water sugar-water mixture mixture into into a a blender blender with with avocados avocados , , lime lime juice juice , , and and salt salt ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour the the mixture mixture into into 10 10 ice ice pop pop molds molds . . Freeze Freeze until until solid solid yet yet still still soft soft , , about about 2 2 hours hours ; ; insert insert wooden wooden sticks sticks and and continue continue freezing freezing until until firm firm , , 12 12 to to 24 24 hours hours . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon crushed crushed red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sea sea salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , mix mix together together chili chili powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , onion onion powder powder , , red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , oregano oregano , , paprika paprika , , cumin cumin , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Store Store in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
cooking spray spray 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can low-sodium low-sodium canned canned luncheon luncheon meat meat ( ( such such as as SPAM® SPAM® ) ) 1/2 1/2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) envelope envelope taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons water water , , or or as as needed needed 1 1 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded lettuce lettuce 8 8 ounces ounces block block Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , grated grated 1 1 small small tomato tomato , , diced diced 1 1 small small onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 ( ( 2.5 2.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives , , drained drained | | Spray Spray a a large large skillet skillet with with cooking cooking spray spray and and place place over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; add add luncheon luncheon meat meat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix ; ; stir stir to to coat coat . . Pour Pour in in water water ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until water water is is evaporated evaporated , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn heat heat to to low low to to keep keep luncheon luncheon meat meat warm warm . . Spray Spray a a separate separate skillet skillet with with cooking cooking spray spray and and place place over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; add add 1 1 tortilla tortilla and and cook cook until until heated heated through through , , about about 1 1 minute minute per per side side . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas . . Layer Layer luncheon luncheon meat meat , , lettuce lettuce , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , tomato tomato , , onion onion , , and and black black olives olives onto onto each each tortilla tortilla . 
1 chorizo chorizo sausage sausage link link , , casing casing removed removed and and meat meat crumbled crumbled 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chipotle chipotle peppers peppers in in adobo adobo sauce sauce 4 4 corn corn tortillas tortillas 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped onion onion , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , or or to to taste taste ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Mix Mix chorizo chorizo and and chipotle chipotle peppers peppers in in adobo adobo sauce sauce together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; add add chorizo chorizo mixture mixture and and cook cook until until crisp crisp , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chorizo chorizo to to a a plate plate , , reserving reserving grease grease in in the the skillet skillet . . Heat Heat tortillas tortillas in in the the reserved reserved grease grease in in skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until warmed warmed , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Stack Stack 2 2 tortillas tortillas on on top top of of each each other other for for each each taco taco . . Fill Fill with with chorizo chorizo , , onion onion , , and and cilantro cilantro . 
1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , divided divided 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder 4 4 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pound pound frozen frozen shrimp shrimp - - thawed thawed , , peeled peeled , , deveined deveined , , and and cleaned cleaned cooking cooking spray spray 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced into into rings rings and and rings rings separated separated 1 1 large large green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced into into strips strips 1 1 serrano serrano chile chile pepper pepper , , sliced sliced , , or or more more to to taste taste 4 4 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , or or to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded lettuce lettuce , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup sour sour cream cream , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes , , or or to to taste taste | | Whisk Whisk olive olive oil oil , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup cilantro cilantro , , chili chili powder powder , , garlic garlic , , lime lime juice juice , , and and salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add shrimp shrimp , , toss toss to to coat coat , , and and marinate marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; spray spray with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Add Add onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , and and serrano serrano chile chile pepper pepper ; ; saute saute until until tender tender , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer vegetables vegetables to to a a bowl bowl and and cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil to to keep keep warm warm . . Pour Pour shrimp shrimp and and marinade marinade into into the the same same skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook until until shrimp shrimp are are pink pink and and opaque opaque , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Stir Stir vegetables vegetables into into shrimp shrimp mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon shrimp-vegetable shrimp-vegetable mixture mixture onto onto tortillas tortillas and and top top each each with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , lettuce lettuce , , sour sour cream cream , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup cilantro cilantro . 
1 fresh fresh pineapple pineapple - - peeled peeled , , cored cored , , and and chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups sliced sliced strawberries strawberries 1/2 1/2 large large cucumber cucumber , , peeled peeled and and diced diced 1 1 mango mango , , peeled peeled and and diced diced 1 1 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 1 1 pinch pinch chile chile powder powder with with lime lime ( ( such such as as Tajin® Tajin® ) ) , , or or to to taste taste | | Combine Combine pineapple pineapple , , strawberries strawberries , , cucumber cucumber , , and and mango mango in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add lemon lemon juice juice and and mix mix well well . . Sprinkle Sprinkle chile chile powder powder over over the the top top and and stir stir . . Top Top salad salad with with more more chile chile powder powder . 
Salad : : 1 1 head head lettuce lettuce , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can corn corn , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 large large tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1/4 1/4 cup cup diced diced green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 avocado avocado , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips Dressing Dressing : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup salsa salsa 1/4 1/4 cup cup ranch-style ranch-style salad salad dressing dressing | | Layer Layer lettuce lettuce , , corn corn , , black black beans beans , , tomato tomato , , green green onions onions , , cilantro cilantro , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , avocado avocado , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , and and tortilla tortilla chips chips , , in in this this order order , , in in a a serving serving bowl bowl . . Stir Stir ranch-style ranch-style dressing dressing and and salsa salsa together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; pour pour over over salad salad . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3 3 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cut cut into into strips strips 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1 1 onion onion , , sliced sliced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 6 6 cups cups milk milk 4 4 cups cups penne penne pasta pasta 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 2 2 sliced sliced green green onions onions ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir chicken chicken strips strips until until browned browned and and cooked cooked through through , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove with with a a slotted slotted spoon spoon to to a a bowl bowl . . Cook Cook red red , , green green , , and and yellow yellow bell bell peppers peppers , , and and sliced sliced in in the the pot pot until until peppers peppers are are tender tender and and onions onions are are translucent translucent , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken back back to to the the pot pot . . Add Add chili chili powder powder , , cumin cumin , , garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Stir Stir to to coat coat chicken chicken and and vegetables vegetables evenly evenly with with seasonings seasonings . . Pour Pour milk milk into into the the pot pot and and stir stir in in pasta pasta . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer ; ; cook cook until until sauce sauce thickens thickens and and pasta pasta is is tender tender yet yet firm firm to to the the bite bite , , 10 10 to to 12 12 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Stir Stir Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese into into the the pasta pasta mixture mixture until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Serve Serve in in bowls bowls topped topped with with sliced sliced green green onions onions . 
Marinade : : 3 3 ancho ancho chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 15 15 whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 ( ( 1 1 inch inch ) ) piece piece fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 2 2 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , peeled peeled 3 3 whole whole cloves cloves 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried marjoram marjoram 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried thyme thyme 4 4 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds goat goat leg leg Meat Meat Sauce Sauce : : 2 2 pounds pounds plum plum tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 cups cups water water 3 3 whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 2 2 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , peeled peeled 2 2 whole whole cloves cloves 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried marjoram marjoram 1 1 pinch pinch dried dried thyme thyme 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cumin cumin salt salt to to taste taste Hot Hot Sauce Sauce : : 30 30 chiles chiles de de arbol arbol 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 10 10 whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 2 2 white white onions onions , , minced minced | | Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add ancho ancho chile chile peppers peppers and and cook cook for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and let let chiles chiles soak soak in in the the hot hot water water until until soft soft , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain . . Blend Blend softened softened chiles chiles , , 1 1 cup cup vinegar vinegar , , 15 15 peppercorns peppercorns , , ginger ginger , , 2 2 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , 3 3 cloves cloves , , 1 1 pinch pinch marjoram marjoram , , 1 1 pinch pinch cumin cumin , , and and 1 1 pinch pinch thyme thyme in in a a blender blender until until marinade marinade is is smooth smooth . . Strain Strain marinade marinade into into a a bowl bowl . . Place Place goat goat in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour in in marinade marinade , , coating coating goat goat completely completely . . Cover Cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 8 8 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer goat goat and and marinade marinade to to a a baking baking dish dish ; ; cover cover with with a a lid lid or or aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until goat goat is is very very tender tender , , about about 3 3 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Remove Remove lid lid or or foil foil and and cook cook until until goat goat is is browned browned , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour meat meat juices juices into into a a container container and and reserve reserve . . Cover Cover the the goat goat to to keep keep warm warm . . Bring Bring a a large large pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add tomatoes tomatoes and and boil boil until until soft soft , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain and and let let tomatoes tomatoes cool cool until until easily easily handled handled . . Peel Peel tomatoes tomatoes and and place place in in blender blender with with reserved reserved goat goat juices juices , , 2 2 cups cups water water , , 3 3 peppercorns peppercorns , , 2 2 garlic garlic cloves cloves , , 2 2 cloves cloves , , 1 1 pinch pinch marjoram marjoram , , 1 1 pinch pinch thyme thyme , , and and 1 1 pinch pinch cumin cumin . . Blend Blend until until meat meat sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour meat meat sauce sauce into into a a small small saucepan saucepan and and season season with with salt salt ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer over over low low heat heat . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; add add chiles chiles de de arbol arbol and and boil boil until until soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Blend Blend softened softened chiles chiles with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup vinegar vinegar , , 10 10 peppercorns peppercorns , , 1 1 garlic garlic clove clove , , and and salt salt until until hot hot sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Strain Strain into into a a glass glass . . Cut Cut goat goat into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces and and serve serve with with a a generous generous amount amount of of meat meat sauce sauce and and hot hot sauce sauce on on the the side side . . Sprinkle Sprinkle onion onion over over goat goat . 
1 tomato tomato 3 3 dried dried guajillo guajillo chile chile peppers peppers , , seeded seeded 2 2 dried dried ancho ancho chile chile peppers peppers , , seeded seeded 1 1 pineapple pineapple , , sliced sliced 3/4-inch 3/4-inch thick thick 1/2 1/2 cup cup orange orange juice juice 1 1 onion onion , , quartered quartered 1/4 1/4 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 chipotle chipotle peppers peppers in in adobo adobo sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 3 3 cloves cloves 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin seeds seeds 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( 2 2 pound pound ) ) pork pork tenderloin tenderloin , , cut cut into into thin thin slices slices To To Serve Serve : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Cook Cook tomato tomato on on a a ridged ridged grill grill pan pan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until slightly slightly blackened blackened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and cool cool until until easily easily handled handled . . Peel Peel off off skin skin and and remove remove seeds seeds . . Bring Bring a a small small pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil . . Add Add guajillo guajillo and and ancho ancho chile chile peppers peppers ; ; cook cook until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Combine Combine tomato tomato flesh flesh , , softened softened chile chile peppers peppers , , 2 2 slices slices pineapple pineapple , , orange orange juice juice , , quartered quartered onion onion , , vinegar vinegar , , chipotle chipotle peppers peppers , , salt salt , , garlic garlic , , cloves cloves , , cumin cumin seeds seeds , , and and oregano oregano in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Arrange Arrange pork pork slices slices in in a a glass glass or or ceramic ceramic baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour blended blended mixture mixture over over pork pork , , ensuring ensuring all all sides sides are are evenly evenly coated coated . . Cover Cover baking baking dish dish with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Marinate Marinate pork pork in in the the refrigerator refrigerator , , 4 4 hours hours to to overnight overnight . . Cook Cook remaining remaining pineapple pineapple slices slices on on a a ridged ridged grill grill pan pan over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until slightly slightly blackened blackened and and soft soft , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Chop Chop into into small small pieces pieces . . Wipe Wipe out out grill grill pan pan and and preheat preheat over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook marinated marinated pork pork in in the the hot hot pan pan , , turning turning once once , , until until browned browned , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Chop Chop pork pork coarsely coarsely into into small small pieces pieces against against the the grain grain . . Serve Serve with with pineapple pineapple , , chopped chopped onion onion , , and and cilantro cilantro . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , diced diced 2 2 pounds pounds plum plum tomatoes tomatoes , , peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup tomato tomato puree puree 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 cube cube fish fish bouillon bouillon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 20 20 pitted pitted green green olives olives 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons capers capers , , rinsed rinsed 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 8 8 large large white white fish fish fillets fillets 6 6 pickled pickled banana banana peppers peppers , , sliced sliced | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a rectangular rectangular baking baking dish dish large large enough enough to to fit fit the the fish fish fillets fillets in in a a single single layer layer . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir onion onion and and garlic garlic until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in plum plum tomatoes tomatoes and and red red bell bell pepper pepper ; ; simmer simmer until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato puree puree ; ; cook cook for for 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir salt salt , , bouillon bouillon cube cube , , oregano oregano , , cinnamon cinnamon , , pepper pepper , , and and bay bay leaves leaves into into the the saucepan saucepan . . Cook Cook until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add olives olives and and capers capers ; ; simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove sauce sauce from from heat heat . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a separate separate skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Season Season fish fish fillets fillets with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; cook cook in in the the hot hot butter butter until until browned browned , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Lay Lay fish fish fillets fillets in in the the baking baking dish dish in in a a single single layer layer ; ; cover cover with with sauce sauce . . Arrange Arrange sliced sliced peppers peppers on on top top . . Cover Cover baking baking dish dish tightly tightly with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until fish fish flakes flakes easily easily with with a a fork fork , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . 
4 poblano poblano peppers peppers 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 ear ear fresh fresh corn corn , , kernels kernels cut cut off off 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 small small onion onion , , sliced sliced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1/2 1/2 cup cup heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 4 4 1/2 1/2 ounces ounces Mexican Mexican manchego manchego cheese cheese , , grated grated | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 500 500 degrees degrees F F ( ( 260 260 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and add add poblano poblano peppers peppers . . Brush Brush peppers peppers with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Roast Roast poblano poblano peppers peppers in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes ; ; flip flip and and continue continue roasting roasting until until skin skin is is charred charred and and flesh flesh is is soft soft , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes more more . . Place Place roasted roasted peppers peppers in in a a bowl bowl and and cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap ; ; let let steam steam for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Carefully Carefully remove remove plastic plastic wrap wrap and and peel peel the the skins skins from from the the peppers peppers and and remove remove seeds seeds and and stems stems . . Cut Cut peppers peppers into into strips strips . . Bring Bring a a pot pot of of water water to to a a boil boil ; ; cook cook corn corn kernels kernels until until soft soft , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil and and butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir onion onion until until soft soft , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add poblano poblano pepper pepper strips strips and and corn corn ; ; season season with with chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules and and cook cook for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and stir stir in in cream cream and and manchego manchego cheese cheese ; ; simmer simmer until until cheese cheese melts melts , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound shredded shredded , , cooked cooked chicken chicken 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole peeled peeled tomatoes tomatoes , , mashed mashed 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen corn corn 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 7 7 corn corn tortillas tortillas vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Place Place chicken chicken , , tomatoes tomatoes , , enchilada enchilada sauce sauce , , onion onion , , green green chiles chiles , , and and garlic garlic into into a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour in in water water and and chicken chicken broth broth , , and and season season with with cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Stir Stir in in corn corn and and cilantro cilantro . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on Low Low setting setting for for 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours or or on on High High setting setting for for 3 3 to to 4 4 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly brush brush both both sides sides of of tortillas tortillas with with oil oil . . Cut Cut tortillas tortillas into into strips strips , , then then spread spread on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until crisp crisp , , about about 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . To To serve serve , , sprinkle sprinkle tortilla tortilla strips strips over over soup soup . 
2 cups cups fresh fresh sweet sweet corn corn kernels kernels 1 1 cup cup milk milk 1 1 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted and and cooled cooled 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 4 4 eggs eggs 2 2 cups cups pancake pancake mix mix , , sifted sifted | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Combine Combine corn corn , , milk milk , , butter butter , , sugar sugar , , and and eggs eggs in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour mixture mixture into into a a bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in pancake pancake mix mix until until batter batter is is well well blended blended . . Pour Pour batter batter into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted in in the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . 
1 guava guava - - peeled peeled , , halved halved , , and and seeded seeded 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped piloncillo piloncillo ( ( Mexican Mexican brown brown sugar sugar cones cones ) ) 1/2 1/2 orange orange , , zested zested 2 2 cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks 5 5 whole whole cloves cloves 5 5 whole whole allspice allspice berries berries 14 14 fluid fluid ounces ounces water water 3/4 3/4 cup cup lard lard 1 1 baguette baguette , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch slices slices 10 10 tablespoons tablespoons roasted roasted peanuts peanuts 1/2 1/2 cup cup raisins raisins 7 7 tablespoons tablespoons pecans pecans 7 7 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried pineapple pineapple pieces pieces ( ( optional optional ) ) 3 3 ounces ounces crumbled crumbled cotija cotija cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon multi-colored multi-colored sprinkles sprinkles , , or or to to taste taste | | Combine Combine guava guava , , piloncillo piloncillo , , orange orange zest zest , , cinnamon cinnamon sticks sticks , , cloves cloves , , and and allspice allspice in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; add add water water . . Bring Bring liquid liquid to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer until until a a syrup syrup forms forms , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Strain Strain syrup syrup into into a a bowl bowl . . Melt Melt lard lard in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; fry fry baguette baguette slices slices , , working working in in batches batches , , until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes per per side side . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate . . Arrange Arrange a a layer layer of of fried fried bread bread in in a a baking baking dish dish ; ; top top with with half half of of the the raisins raisins , , half half of of the the pecans pecans , , half half of of the the pineapple pineapple , , and and half half of of the the cotija cotija cheese cheese . . Drizzle Drizzle half half of of the the syrup syrup over over the the top top . . Repeat Repeat layering layering with with remaining remaining fried fried bread bread , , raisins raisins , , pineapple pineapple , , cotija cotija cheese cheese , , and and syrup syrup . . Top Top with with sprinkles sprinkles . . Let Let stand stand until until bread bread has has absorbed absorbed the the syrup syrup , , 1 1 to to 2 2 hours hours . 
1/2 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter , , softened softened 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups rice rice flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup dark dark cocoa cocoa powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line 12 12 muffin muffin cups cups with with paper paper liners liners . . Beat Beat butter butter and and sugar sugar together together in in the the bowl bowl of of a a stand stand mixer mixer or or using using an an electric electric hand hand mixer mixer on on high high speed speed until until creamy creamy and and fluffy fluffy . . Add Add eggs eggs , , 1 1 at at a a time time , , beating beating well well after after each each addition addition . . Add Add vanilla vanilla extract extract and and mix mix well well . . Mix Mix rice rice flour flour , , cocoa cocoa powder powder , , baking baking powder powder , , cinnamon cinnamon , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and baking baking soda soda into into creamed creamed butter butter mixture mixture and and mix mix on on low low speed speed until until flour flour is is moistened moistened ; ; increase increase speed speed to to medium medium and and mix mix until until there there are are no no longer longer lumps lumps . . Reduce Reduce mixer mixer speed speed to to low low and and add add milk milk ; ; mix mix until until batter batter is is well well blended blended . . Fill Fill each each prepared prepared muffin muffin cup cup with with about about 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons batter batter . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted in in the the center center comes comes out out clean clean , , 18 18 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 vanilla vanilla bean bean 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Urfa Urfa biber biber ( ( Turkish Turkish chile chile pepper pepper ) ) 6 6 cups cups milk milk 1 1 cinnamon cinnamon stick stick 8 8 ounces ounces bittersweet bittersweet chocolate chocolate 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup whipped whipped cream cream , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grated grated bittersweet bittersweet chocolate chocolate | | Split Split vanilla vanilla bean bean lengthwise lengthwise with with the the tip tip of of a a sharp sharp knife knife . . Place Place Urfa Urfa biber biber in in a a tea tea infuser infuser . . Combine Combine vanilla vanilla bean bean , , Urfa Urfa biber biber , , milk milk , , and and cinnamon cinnamon stick stick in in a a pot pot . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , until until milk milk is is steaming steaming and and small small bubbles bubbles appear appear , , 4 4 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove Urfa Urfa biber biber . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low . . Add Add chocolate chocolate and and sugar sugar ; ; stir stir until until chocolate chocolate is is melted melted , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove cinnamon cinnamon stick stick and and vanilla vanilla bean bean . . Pour Pour into into cups cups and and top top with with a a dollop dollop of of whipped whipped cream cream . . Garnish Garnish with with bittersweet bittersweet chocolate chocolate . 
1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package Johnsonville® Johnsonville® Original Original , , Brown Brown Sugar Sugar & & Honey Honey , , or or Vermont Vermont Maple Maple Syrup Syrup Breakfast Breakfast Sausage Sausage links links 4 4 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) Mission® Mission® Super Super Soft Soft Flour Flour Tortillas Tortillas 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons red red pepper pepper jelly jelly 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sliced sliced green green onions onions | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F . . Arrange Arrange sausage sausage in in an an 8-in 8-in . . square square nonstick nonstick baking baking pan pan . . Bake Bake sausage sausage according according to to package package directions directions . . Remove Remove sausage sausage from from baking baking pan pan ; ; set set aside aside . . Cut Cut tortillas tortillas into into four four equal equal quarters quarters ; ; cover cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Place Place one one tortilla tortilla wedge wedge on on a a work work surface surface ; ; place place one one sausage sausage link link on on wide wide end end of of wedge wedge . . Brush Brush pointed pointed end end of of tortilla tortilla with with water water ; ; roll roll up up and and press press to to seal seal . . Place Place in in pan pan , , seam seam side side down down . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining sausage sausage links links . . Bake Bake for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Turn Turn seam seam side side up up and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cheese cheese . . Bake Bake 3 3 minutes minutes longer longer or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Cool Cool slightly slightly . . Top Top with with red red pepper pepper jelly jelly and and green green onions onions . 
Crepes : : 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 2 2 eggs eggs 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , melted melted Filling Filling : : 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can pinto pinto beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup medium medium salsa salsa ( ( such such as as Que Que Pasa® Pasa® ) ) 1 1 cup cup canned canned whole whole tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 cup cup drained drained whole whole kernel kernel corn corn 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground ginger ginger 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Combine Combine flour flour , , milk milk , , water water , , eggs eggs , , and and melted melted butter butter in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; beat beat with with a a wire wire whisk whisk until until crepe crepe batter batter is is free free of of lumps lumps . . Heat Heat a a nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of batter batter into into the the skillet skillet ; ; cook cook until until bubbles bubbles form form on on the the surface surface , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Flip Flip and and cook cook crepe crepe for for 1 1 minute minute on on the the second second side side . . Transfer Transfer to to a a plate plate . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining crepe crepe batter batter . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with parchment parchment paper paper . . Pour Pour pinto pinto beans beans into into a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook until until heated heated through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and let let cool cool slightly slightly . . Mash Mash into into a a fine fine puree puree using using a a potato potato masher masher . . Combine Combine salsa salsa , , tomatoes tomatoes , , corn corn , , ginger ginger , , and and chili chili powder powder in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Mix Mix in in pureed pureed beans beans . . Spoon Spoon some some of of the the bean bean mixture mixture into into the the center center of of each each crepe crepe . . Roll Roll up up crepes crepes , , tucking tucking ends ends in in neatly neatly . . Place Place filled filled crepes crepes seam-side seam-side down down on on the the lined lined baking baking sheet sheet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle grated grated Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese on on top top . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . 
2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans white white hominy hominy , , drained drained water water to to cover cover 1 1 head head garlic garlic , , cloves cloves peeled peeled salt salt to to taste taste 2/3 2/3 pound pound pork pork shoulder shoulder , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2/3 2/3 pound pound pork pork loin loin , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 2/3 2/3 pound pound pork pork legs legs , , coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 large large plum plum tomato tomato 4 4 ounces ounces dried dried guajillo guajillo chiles chiles , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 cups cups water water Toppings Toppings : : 1 1 head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce , , finely finely shredded shredded 1 1 small small onion onion , , diced diced 4 4 limes limes , , quartered quartered | | Place Place hominy hominy in in a a large large pot pot ; ; cover cover with with water water . . Add Add 1 1 head head garlic garlic and and salt salt to to taste taste . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat for for 2 2 hours hours . . Place Place pork pork shoulder shoulder , , pork pork loin loin , , and and pork pork legs legs in in the the hominy hominy mixture mixture and and cook cook until until meat meat is is tender tender and and cooked cooked through through , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Place Place tomato tomato and and guajillo guajillo chiles chiles in in a a pot pot and and add add enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook until until chiles chiles have have softened softened , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Place Place tomato tomato and and chiles chiles with with salt salt , , 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , and and cumin cumin in in a a blender blender ; ; add add 2 2 cups cups water water . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . Strain Strain mixture mixture through through a a fine-mesh fine-mesh sieve sieve and and set set chile chile sauce sauce aside aside . . Transfer Transfer pork pork to to a a work work surface surface and and shred shred with with 2 2 forks forks . . Pour Pour chile chile sauce sauce into into hominy hominy mixture mixture ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Return Return shredded shredded pork pork to to pot pot . . Simmer Simmer pozole pozole until until flavors flavors have have blended blended , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle pozole pozole into into serving serving bowls bowls and and top top with with lettuce lettuce and and onion onion and and serve serve lime lime wedge wedge on on the the side side . 
cooking spray spray 1 1 ( ( 13 13 ounce ounce ) ) can can Mexican Mexican cajeta cajeta caramel caramel Cake Cake : : 1 1 ( ( 18.25 18.25 ounce ounce ) ) box box devil devil 's 's food food cake cake mix mix 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil Flan Flan : : 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 5 5 eggs eggs 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , at at room room temperature temperature 1/2 1/2 cup cup whole whole milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons Mexican Mexican vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a 15-cup 15-cup fluted fluted tube tube pan pan ( ( such such as as Bundt Bundt ( ( R R ) ) ) ) with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Pour Pour cajeta cajeta into into a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl . . Heat Heat in in the the microwave microwave until until smooth smooth , , 20 20 to to 30 30 seconds seconds . . Pour Pour into into the the bottom bottom of of the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Combine Combine cake cake mix mix , , water water , , 3 3 eggs eggs , , and and vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large bowl bowl ; ; beat beat with with an an electric electric mixer mixer on on low low speed speed until until moistened moistened , , about about 30 30 seconds seconds . . Increase Increase speed speed to to medium medium and and beat beat until until batter batter is is smooth smooth , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour cake cake batter batter over over cajeta cajeta in in the the pan pan . . Combine Combine condensed condensed milk milk , , evaporated evaporated milk milk , , 5 5 eggs eggs , , cream cream cheese cheese , , milk milk , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour milk milk mixture mixture slowly slowly over over cake cake batter batter . . Wrap Wrap pan pan tightly tightly with with aluminum aluminum foil foil ; ; place place in in a a large large baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour enough enough water water into into the the baking baking dish dish to to come come 2 2 inches inches up up the the sides sides of of the the pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the cake cake comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 2 2 hours hours . . Remove Remove pan pan from from the the baking baking dish dish ; ; let let cool cool for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Unwrap Unwrap the the aluminum aluminum foil foil ; ; invert invert cake cake onto onto a a large large rimmed rimmed plate plate . . Let Let cake cake cool cool completely completely , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Chill Chill before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound white white American American cheese cheese ( ( such such as as Land Land O'Lakes® O'Lakes® ) ) , , sliced sliced 1 1 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half , , or or as as needed needed 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons diced diced jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder | | Place Place American American cheese cheese and and about about 1/4 1/4 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half in in a a saucepan saucepan over over low low heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until cheese cheese starts starts to to melt melt , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Slowly Slowly start start stirring stirring half-and-half half-and-half into into cheese cheese mixture mixture , , about about 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons at at a a time time , , until until cheese cheese begins begins to to melt melt and and mixture mixture is is smooth smooth , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . . Continue Continue adding adding more more half-and-half half-and-half . . Season Season cheese cheese mixture mixture with with cumin cumin , , black black pepper pepper , , and and salt salt ; ; add add red red pepper pepper flakes flakes , , a a little little at at a a time time , , until until desired desired spiciness spiciness is is reached reached . . Cook Cook and and stir stir cheese cheese dip dip until until cheese cheese is is fully fully melted melted , , adding adding more more half-and-half half-and-half if if needed needed to to thin thin it it out out , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes more more . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and top top dip dip with with chili chili powder powder . 
3 quarts quarts chicken chicken broth broth , , divided divided 1 1 large large tomato tomato , , quartered quartered salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground chuck chuck 1 1 hot hot pepper pepper , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package pepper pepper Jack Jack cheese cheese , , cubed cubed 2 2 hard-boiled hard-boiled eggs eggs , , cut cut into into small small chunks chunks ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and cubed cubed 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro | | Combine Combine 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth and and tomato tomato in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Transfer Transfer tomato tomato mixture mixture to to a a large large pot pot ; ; add add remaining remaining 11 11 cups cups broth broth . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , skimming skimming off off any any foam foam that that rises rises to to the the top top . . Season Season broth broth with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Mix Mix ground ground chuck chuck , , hot hot pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , and and cumin cumin together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Scoop Scoop ground ground chuck chuck mixture mixture into into a a small small ball ball ; ; press press 1 1 cube cube of of pepper pepper Jack Jack cheese cheese and and 1 1 chunk chunk of of egg egg into into the the center center and and roll roll meatball meatball to to seal seal . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining chuck chuck mixture mixture , , cheese cheese , , and and eggs eggs . . Lower Lower meatballs meatballs gently gently into into the the boiling boiling broth broth . . Add Add potatoes potatoes , , onion onion , , white white rice rice , , and and cilantro cilantro . . Simmer Simmer until until meatballs meatballs are are no no long long pink pink and and potatoes potatoes and and rice rice are are tender tender , , 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . 
2 kiwis kiwis , , peeled peeled and and diced diced 2 2 Golden Golden Delicious Delicious apples apples - - peeled peeled , , cored cored and and diced diced 8 8 ounces ounces raspberries raspberries 1 1 pound pound strawberries strawberries 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown sugar sugar 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons fruit fruit preserves preserves , , any any flavor flavor 10 10 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas butter butter flavored flavored cooking cooking spray spray 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cinnamon cinnamon sugar sugar | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , thoroughly thoroughly mix mix kiwis kiwis , , Golden Golden Delicious Delicious apples apples , , raspberries raspberries , , strawberries strawberries , , white white sugar sugar , , brown brown sugar sugar and and fruit fruit preserves preserves . . Cover Cover and and chill chill in in the the refrigerator refrigerator at at least least 15 15 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Coat Coat one one side side of of each each flour flour tortilla tortilla with with butter butter flavored flavored cooking cooking spray spray . . Cut Cut into into wedges wedges and and arrange arrange in in a a single single layer layer on on a a large large baking baking sheet sheet . . Sprinkle Sprinkle wedges wedges with with desired desired amount amount of of cinnamon cinnamon sugar sugar . . Spray Spray again again with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 8 8 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Repeat Repeat with with any any remaining remaining tortilla tortilla wedges wedges . . Allow Allow to to cool cool approximately approximately 15 15 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve with with chilled chilled fruit fruit mixture mixture . 
Stock : : 1 1 gallon gallon water water 3 3 cups cups tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 yellow yellow onion onion , , quartered quartered 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon ( ( such such as as Knorr® Knorr® ) ) 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano Meatballs Meatballs : : 3 3 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 3 3 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon seasoned seasoned salt salt ( ( such such as as Season-All® Season-All® ) ) 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 10 10 small small baby baby potatoes potatoes 5 5 large large carrots carrots , , sliced sliced diagonally diagonally 5 5 stalks stalks celery celery , , sliced sliced diagonally diagonally 2 2 zucchini zucchini , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups thickly thickly shredded shredded green green cabbage cabbage 1 1 lemon lemon , , sliced sliced into into wedges wedges ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 avocados avocados , , chopped chopped ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Pour Pour water water into into a a large large stockpot stockpot over over high high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in 3 3 cups cups tomato tomato sauce sauce , , yellow yellow onion onion , , chicken chicken bouillon bouillon , , garlic garlic , , and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano . . Bring Bring broth broth to to a a slow slow boil boil . . Combine Combine ground ground beef beef , , eggs eggs , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce , , white white rice rice , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup cilantro cilantro , , seasoned seasoned salt salt , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano , , onion onion powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , black black pepper pepper , , and and cumin cumin in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Squeeze Squeeze mixture mixture with with your your hands hands until until thoroughly thoroughly mixed mixed . . Scoop Scoop 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of beef beef mixture mixture and and form form in in a a ball ball . . Lower Lower gently gently into into boiling boiling broth broth . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining beef beef mixture mixture . . Stir Stir potatoes potatoes , , carrots carrots , , and and celery celery into into the the broth broth . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer until until meatballs meatballs and and potatoes potatoes are are tender tender , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in zucchini zucchini and and cabbage cabbage . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer until until cabbage cabbage is is tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve with with a a squeeze squeeze of of lemon lemon juice juice and and garnish garnish with with avocado avocado and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup cilantro cilantro . 
Bread : : 4 4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 3 3 eggs eggs 3 3 eggs eggs , , separated separated 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon warm warm water water 2 2 ( ( .25 .25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages dry dry yeast yeast 1 1 orange orange , , zested zested 1 1 lime lime , , zested zested 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter , , softened softened Topping Topping : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter 1/4 1/4 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 20 20 candied candied citrus citrus peels peels | | Mix Mix 4 4 cups cups flour flour , , eggs eggs , , egg egg yolks yolks , , 2/3 2/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar , , water water , , dry dry yeast yeast , , orange orange zest zest , , lime lime zest zest , , and and salt salt in in the the bowl bowl of of an an electric electric mixer mixer fitted fitted with with a a dough dough hook hook . . Add Add 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter ; ; mix mix until until dough dough is is elastic elastic and and shiny shiny , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Form Form dough dough into into a a ball ball . . Cover Cover and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place for for 45 45 minutes minutes . . Punch Punch down down dough dough gently gently ; ; roll roll into into a a long long cylinder cylinder . . Join Join the the ends ends of of the the cylinder cylinder together together in in the the shape shape of of an an oval oval ring ring . . Place Place ring ring on on a a greased greased baking baking sheet sheet ; ; cover cover and and let let rise rise in in a a warm warm place place for for 45 45 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Whisk Whisk eggs eggs whites whites in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Brush Brush egg egg whites whites evenly evenly over over dough dough . . Mix Mix 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar and and 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter in in a a small small bowl bowl with with your your fingers fingers to to form form a a paste paste . . Add Add enough enough flour flour to to give give paste paste the the consistency consistency of of Play-Doh Play-Doh ( ( R R ) ) ; ; divide divide into into 5 5 or or 6 6 balls balls . . Place Place each each ball ball between between two two 3-inch 3-inch squares squares of of parchment parchment paper paper . . Press Press with with the the bottom bottom of of a a 1-cup 1-cup measuring measuring cup cup to to make make a a circle circle about about 1/8 1/8 inch inch thick thick . . Space Space circles circles evenly evenly around around the the dough dough ring ring . . Arrange Arrange candied candied citrus citrus peels peels on on top top of of the the dough dough . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool for for 20 20 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
Dry Rub Rub : : 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon sweet sweet paprika paprika 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin Bowl Bowl Ingredients Ingredients : : 1/2 1/2 pound pound flank flank steak steak 1 1 cup cup cooked cooked white white rice rice 1 1 cup cup halved halved cherry cherry tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped romaine romaine lettuce lettuce 1 1 cup cup tortilla tortilla chips chips 1/2 1/2 cup cup canned canned black black beans beans 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 lime lime , , cut cut into into wedges wedges 1/4 1/4 cup cup crumbled crumbled cotija cotija cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro Avocado Avocado Cilantro Cilantro Dressing Dressing : : 2 2 avocados avocados , , peeled peeled and and pitted pitted 1 1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt | | Preheat Preheat a a grill grill pan pan or or skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until just just barely barely smoking smoking . . Combine Combine garlic garlic powder powder , , chili chili powder powder , , kosher kosher salt salt , , paprika paprika , , and and cumin cumin in in a a bowl bowl ; ; rub rub over over all all sides sides of of flank flank steak steak . . Grill Grill flank flank steak steak in in the the preheated preheated grill grill pan pan , , flipping flipping halfway halfway through through , , until until browned browned and and cooked cooked to to desired desired doneness doneness , , about about 8 8 minutes minutes . . Let Let steak steak rest rest on on a a work work surface surface for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Thinly Thinly slice slice steak steak against against the the grain grain . . Divide Divide rice rice , , tomatoes tomatoes , , romaine romaine lettuce lettuce , , tortilla tortilla chips chips , , black black beans beans , , jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , and and lime lime wedges wedges between between 2 2 serving serving bowls bowls ; ; top top with with steak steak , , cotija cotija cheese cheese , , and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cilantro cilantro . . Combine Combine avocados avocados , , water water , , 1/2 1/2 cup cup cilantro cilantro , , sour sour cream cream , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , and and salt salt in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until dressing dressing is is smooth smooth . . Pour Pour dressing dressing over over each each bowl bowl . 
1 pound pound shredded shredded rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken 1/4 1/4 cup cup Buffalo Buffalo wing wing sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package tortilla tortilla chips chips 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup crumbled crumbled blue blue cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped green green onion onion , , or or to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 425 425 degrees degrees F F ( ( 220 220 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Combine Combine chicken chicken and and Buffalo Buffalo wing wing sauce sauce in in a a bowl bowl . . Place Place 1 1 layer layer tortilla tortilla chips chips in in the the bottom bottom of of a a baking baking dish dish ; ; top top with with a a layer layer of of Buffalo Buffalo chicken chicken mixture mixture , , black black beans beans , , and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Continue Continue layering layering with with remaining remaining tortilla tortilla chips chips , , Buffalo Buffalo chicken chicken mixture mixture , , black black beans beans , , and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover the the nachos nachos with with aluminum aluminum foil foil if if the the top top is is getting getting too too dark dark . . Top Top nachos nachos with with sour sour cream cream , , blue blue cheese cheese , , jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , and and green green onion onion . 
4 cups cups water water 2 2 cups cups dry dry pinto pinto beans beans , , rinsed rinsed 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup salsa salsa ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup roughly roughly chopped chopped cilantro cilantro , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , minced minced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons tomato-flavored tomato-flavored bouillon bouillon 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vegetable vegetable bouillon bouillon 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground paprika paprika 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | Combine Combine water water , , pinto pinto beans beans , , onion onion , , salsa salsa , , cilantro cilantro , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , garlic garlic , , tomato tomato bouillon bouillon , , vegetable vegetable bouillon bouillon , , chili chili powder powder , , paprika paprika , , cumin cumin , , and and black black pepper pepper in in an an electric electric pressure pressure cooker cooker ( ( such such as as Instant Instant Pot Pot ( ( R R ) ) ) ) . . Cook Cook for for 45 45 minutes minutes on on the the `` `` Bean/Chili Bean/Chili '' '' setting setting . . Let Let pressure pressure release release naturally naturally per per manufacturer manufacturer 's 's instructions instructions . 
2 pounds pounds flank flank steak steak 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper cooking cooking spray spray 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can chickpeas chickpeas , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cherry cherry tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 English English cucumber cucumber , , chopped chopped 1 1 red red onion onion , , chopped chopped 12 12 corn corn tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup crumbled crumbled feta feta cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh parsley parsley | | Put Put steak steak in in a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Whisk Whisk olive olive oil oil , , lemon lemon juice juice , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , and and black black pepper pepper in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Reserve Reserve 1/2 1/2 cup cup marinade marinade for for vegetables vegetables ; ; pour pour remainder remainder over over steak steak and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Seal Seal bag bag . . Chill Chill at at least least 2 2 hours hours or or up up to to 12 12 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place 1 1 rack rack in in center center position position and and another another 4 4 inches inches from from broiler broiler . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and spray spray with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Toss Toss chickpeas chickpeas , , tomatoes tomatoes , , cucumber cucumber , , and and red red onion onion with with reserved reserved 1/2 1/2 cup cup marinade marinade on on the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet and and spread spread in in an an even even layer layer . . Roast Roast on on center center rack rack until until vegetables vegetables begin begin to to pucker pucker and and brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove baking baking sheet sheet from from oven oven and and turn turn oven oven to to broil broil . . Push Push vegetables vegetables to to the the middle middle of of the the pan pan . . Remove Remove steak steak from from marinade marinade , , allowing allowing excess excess liquid liquid to to drip drip off off , , brush brush off off garlic garlic , , and and set set on on top top of of vegetables vegetables . . Discard Discard marinade marinade . . Broil Broil steak steak on on top top rack rack , , flipping flipping once once , , until until it it begins begins to to char char and and an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into thickest thickest part part registers registers 125 125 degrees degrees F F ( ( 52 52 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for rare rare or or 135 135 degrees degrees F F ( ( 57 57 degrees degrees F F ) ) for for medium-rare medium-rare , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Turn Turn oven oven off off and and place place tortillas tortillas on on the the bottom bottom rack rack of of the the oven oven ; ; keep keep in in oven oven until until warmed warmed and and slightly slightly toasted toasted , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover steak steak loosely loosely with with foil foil and and let let rest rest 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing thinly thinly across across the the grain grain . . Fill Fill tortillas tortillas with with warm warm steak steak and and vegetables vegetables ; ; top top with with feta feta cheese cheese and and parsley parsley . 
2 pounds pounds flank flank steak steak 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup lime lime juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon kosher kosher salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper cooking cooking spray spray 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cherry cherry tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 red red onion onion , , chopped chopped 8 8 cups cups chopped chopped romaine romaine lettuce lettuce 1 1 cup cup crumbled crumbled queso queso fresco fresco 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Put Put steak steak in in a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Whisk Whisk olive olive oil oil , , lime lime juice juice , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , garlic garlic , , oregano oregano , , salt salt , , cumin cumin , , and and black black pepper pepper in in a a small small bowl bowl . . Reserve Reserve 1/2 1/2 cup cup marinade marinade for for vegetables vegetables ; ; pour pour remainder remainder over over steak steak and and turn turn to to coat coat . . Seal Seal bag bag . . Chill Chill at at least least 2 2 hours hours or or up up to to 12 12 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place 1 1 rack rack in in center center position position and and another another 4 4 inches inches from from broiler broiler . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and spray spray with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Toss Toss black black beans beans , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and onion onion , , with with reserved reserved 1/2 1/2 cup cup marinade marinade on on the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet and and spread spread in in an an even even layer layer . . Roast Roast on on center center rack rack until until vegetables vegetables begin begin to to pucker pucker and and brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove baking baking sheet sheet from from oven oven and and turn turn oven oven to to broil broil . . Push Push vegetables vegetables to to the the middle middle of of the the pan pan . . Remove Remove steak steak from from marinade marinade , , allowing allowing excess excess liquid liquid to to drip drip off off , , brush brush off off garlic garlic , , and and set set on on top top of of vegetables vegetables . . Discard Discard marinade marinade . . Broil Broil steak steak on on top top rack rack , , flipping flipping once once , , until until it it begins begins to to char char and and an an instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted into into thickest thickest part part registers registers 125 125 degrees degrees F F ( ( 52 52 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for rare rare or or 135 135 degrees degrees F F ( ( 57 57 degrees degrees F F ) ) for for medium-rare medium-rare , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . . Cover Cover steak steak loosely loosely with with foil foil and and let let rest rest 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing thinly thinly across across the the grain grain . . Serve Serve warm warm steak steak and and vegetables vegetables with with pan pan juices juices over over romaine romaine ; ; top top with with queso queso fresco fresco and and cilantro cilantro . 
2 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons diced diced green green bell bell pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons diced diced red red bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons Mexican-style Mexican-style chile chile powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 dash dash ground ground cinnamon cinnamon salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste cooking cooking spray spray | | Whisk Whisk eggs eggs together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Mix Mix in in onion onion , , milk milk , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , chile chile powder powder , , onion onion powder powder , , cumin cumin , , cinnamon cinnamon , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; grease grease with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Pour Pour in in egg egg mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until golden golden brown brown , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into 1-inch 1-inch pieces pieces 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 chipotle chipotle peppers peppers in in adobo adobo sauce sauce , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans hominy hominy 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken , , onion onion , , chipotle chipotle peppers peppers , , garlic garlic , , and and garlic garlic salt salt ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until lightly lightly browned browned , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir enchilada enchilada sauce sauce , , hominy hominy , , tomatoes tomatoes , , black black beans beans , , and and water water into into the the pot pot . . Season Season with with chili chili powder powder , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , salt salt , , and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a gentle gentle boil boil . . Cover Cover and and simmer simmer until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro . 
Vegan Green Green Chile Chile Cilantro Cilantro Sauce Sauce : : 1 1 cup cup unsalted unsalted raw raw cashews cashews 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 1/4 1/4 cup cup hemp hemp milk milk 1/2 1/2 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper with with seeds seeds , , or or more more to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups quinoa quinoa 2 2 romaine romaine hearts hearts , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 3 3 cups cups chopped chopped red red bell bell pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped red red onion onion 2 2 avocados avocados , , chopped chopped | | Combine Combine cashews cashews , , green green chile chile peppers peppers , , hemp hemp milk milk , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , and and salt salt in in a a blender blender ; ; process process until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour cashew cashew mixture mixture into into a a small small bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in 1 1 cup cup cilantro cilantro . . Bring Bring water water and and quinoa quinoa to to a a boil boil in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until quinoa quinoa is is tender tender , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide romaine romaine lettuce lettuce among among 4 4 bowls bowls . . Top Top with with quinoa quinoa , , black black beans beans , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , and and onion onion . . Drizzle Drizzle cilantro cilantro sauce sauce on on top top . . Garnish Garnish with with remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 cup cup cilantro cilantro and and chopped chopped avocados avocados . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chiles chiles 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups cubed cubed cooked cooked chicken chicken breast breast meat meat 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , divided divided 6 6 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a large large baking baking dish dish . . In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , melt melt the the butter butter and and saute saute the the green green onion onion until until tender tender ( ( about about 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes ) ) . . Add Add the the garlic garlic powder powder , , then then stir stir in in the the green green chiles chiles , , cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup and and sour sour cream cream . . Mix Mix well well . . Reserve Reserve 3/4 3/4 of of this this sauce sauce and and set set aside aside . . To To the the remaining remaining 1/4 1/4 of of the the sauce sauce in in the the saucepan saucepan , , add add the the chicken chicken and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Stir Stir together together . . Fill Fill each each flour flour tortilla tortilla with with the the chicken chicken mixture mixture and and roll roll up up . . Place Place seam seam side side down down in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . In In a a small small bowl bowl combine combine the the reserved reserved 3/4 3/4 of of the the sauce sauce with with the the milk milk . . Spoon Spoon this this mixture mixture over over the the rolled rolled tortillas tortillas and and top top with with the the remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese is is bubbly bubbly . 
10 small small potatoes potatoes 4 4 tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced , , divided divided 1 1 onion onion , , diced diced , , divided divided 1 1 green green chile chile pepper pepper , , diced diced , , divided divided salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 10 10 corn corn tortillas tortillas 5 5 ounces ounces truffle-infused truffle-infused cow cow 's 's milk milk cheese cheese , , grated grated | | Place Place potatoes potatoes into into a a large large pot pot and and cover cover with with salted salted water water ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low and and simmer simmer until until tender tender , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Place Place 1/2 1/2 of of the the tomatoes tomatoes , , 1/2 1/2 of of the the onion onion , , and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the green green chile chile pepper pepper in in a a food food processor processor or or blender blender ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat 1/4 1/4 cup cup oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; add add potatoes potatoes and and mash mash with with the the back back of of a a wooden wooden spoon spoon or or fork fork . . Season Season potatoes potatoes with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir 1/2 1/2 cup cup blended blended tomato tomato mixture mixture into into potatoes potatoes . . Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oil oil in in a a separate separate skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook 1 1 tortilla tortilla until until softened softened , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon potato potato mixture mixture onto onto 1 1 side side of of the the tortilla tortilla , , cover cover with with truffle-infused truffle-infused cheese cheese , , and and fold fold taco taco in in half half . . Fry Fry in in the the oil oil until until brown brown and and crisp crisp , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes more more . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining oil oil , , tortillas tortillas , , potato potato mixture mixture , , and and cheese cheese . . Mix Mix the the remaining remaining tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , and and green green chile chile pepper pepper together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; add add the the remaining remaining blended blended tomato tomato mixture mixture until until salsa salsa is is well well mixed mixed . . Serve Serve salsa salsa alongside alongside tacos tacos . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 cups cups cooked cooked pinto pinto beans beans 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon water water , , or or more more as as needed needed 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 1 1 baguette baguette , , sliced sliced 3/4-inch 3/4-inch thick thick 10 10 1/2 1/2 ounces ounces Oaxaca Oaxaca cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons pico pico de de gallo gallo , , or or to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add beans beans and and water water ; ; mash mash until until soft soft and and heated heated through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Spread Spread butter butter on on baguette baguette slices slices ; ; arrange arrange on on a a toaster toaster oven oven tray tray . . Bake Bake in in the the toaster toaster oven oven until until golden golden , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Spread Spread beans beans on on top top . . Cover Cover with with Oaxaca Oaxaca cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the toaster toaster oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and lightly lightly browned browned , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a serving serving platter platter . . Garnish Garnish with with pico pico de de gallo gallo . 
Corn Salsa Salsa : : 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can corn corn , , drained drained 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 1/2 1/2 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons chopped chopped garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Himalayan Himalayan salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 dashes dashes liquid liquid smoke smoke flavoring flavoring 3 3 portobello portobello mushrooms mushrooms , , stems stems removed removed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons onion onion powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sea sea salt salt 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried black black beans beans 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 avocado avocado , , roughly roughly chopped chopped and and slightly slightly mashed mashed 1 1 Roma Roma tomato tomato , , diced diced | | Mix Mix corn corn , , cilantro cilantro , , lime lime juice juice , , jalapeno jalapeno , , 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cumin cumin , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oregano oregano , , chopped chopped garlic garlic , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon Himalayan Himalayan salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl until until salsa salsa is is well well mixed mixed . . Mix Mix olive olive oil oil and and liquid liquid smoke smoke together together in in a a separate separate bowl bowl ; ; rub rub onto onto mushrooms mushrooms . . Season Season mushrooms mushrooms with with 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons cumin cumin , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons oregano oregano , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder , , 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons onion onion powder powder , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon sea sea salt salt . . Place Place seasoned seasoned mushrooms mushrooms onto onto a a grill grill pan pan with with the the flat flat side side down down . . ( ( A A grill grill pan pan for for a a countertop countertop induction induction oven oven can can also also be be used used . . ) ) Place Place grill grill pan pan in in the the oven oven and and heat heat oven oven to to 445 445 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . ( ( Or Or turn turn on on a a countertop countertop induction induction oven oven to to Combo Combo 1 1 . . ) ) Cook Cook in in the the oven oven until until tender tender , , 9 9 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix refried refried beans beans , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cumin cumin , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon oregano oregano , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon garlic garlic powder powder , , 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder , , 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper , , and and 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt together together in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove grill grill pan pan from from oven oven and and spoon spoon bean bean mixture mixture into into mushrooms mushrooms ; ; top top with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Return Return grill grill pan pan with with mushrooms mushrooms to to oven oven . . Set Set oven oven to to broil broil and and cook cook mushrooms mushrooms until until cheese cheese is is melted melted , , 30 30 seconds seconds to to 1 1 minute minute . . Spoon Spoon salsa salsa over over mushrooms mushrooms and and top top with with avocado avocado and and tomatoes tomatoes . 
8 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) slices slices smoked smoked bacon bacon , , cut cut into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch strips strips 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) container container chicken chicken broth broth 3 3 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and mild mild green green chile chile peppers peppers ( ( such such as as RO*TEL® RO*TEL® ) ) 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn 3 3 chipotle chipotle peppers peppers in in adobo adobo sauce sauce , , chopped chopped , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried cilantro cilantro 3 3 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas , , cut cut into into strips strips 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Cook Cook bacon bacon in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until crispy crispy , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel towel , , reserving reserving 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon grease grease in in the the skillet skillet . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic to to the the skillet skillet ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion are are translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Combine Combine chicken chicken broth broth and and chicken chicken breasts breasts in in a a large large pot pot ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Cook Cook until until chicken chicken breasts breasts are are no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 15 15 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove chicken chicken breasts breasts from from broth broth ; ; cool cool until until easily easily handled handled . . Stir Stir bacon bacon , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and green green chile chile peppers peppers , , and and tomato tomato sauce sauce into into the the chicken chicken broth broth . . Add Add corn corn , , chipotle chipotle peppers peppers , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , and and cilantro cilantro . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place tortilla tortilla strips strips on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Tear Tear chicken chicken breasts breasts into into small small strips strips ; ; add add to to the the broth broth mixture mixture . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until soup soup flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Bake Bake tortilla tortilla strips strips in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until slightly slightly crisp crisp , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into serving serving bowls bowls . . Top Top with with sour sour cream cream ; ; garnish garnish with with tortilla tortilla strips strips and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 white white onion onion , , diced diced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , diced diced 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 4 4 large large fresh fresh tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 2 2 Anaheim Anaheim chile chile peppers peppers , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 whole whole rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken , , torn torn into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces 1 1 lime lime , , sliced sliced into into wedges wedges 3 3 cups cups crushed crushed corn corn chips chips 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 avocado avocado - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded , , and and sliced sliced 3 3 sprigs sprigs cilantro cilantro , , diced diced | | Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large stock stock pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until brown brown and and tender tender , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in 2 2 cans cans of of chicken chicken broth broth and and canned canned tomatoes tomatoes . . Add Add fresh fresh tomatoes tomatoes . . Mix Mix Anaheim Anaheim chile chile peppers peppers , , jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , and and pepper pepper into into the the pot pot . . Stir Stir in in chicken chicken . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and simmer simmer soup soup until until flavors flavors combine combine , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into serving serving bowls bowls ; ; twist twist 1 1 lime lime wedge wedge into into each each bowl bowl . . Top Top with with corn corn chips chips , , sour sour cream cream , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , avocado avocado slices slices , , and and cilantro cilantro . 
1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 5 5 potatoes potatoes , , peeled peeled and and shredded shredded 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can lite lite luncheon luncheon meat meat ( ( such such as as Spam® Spam® ) ) , , diced diced 1/2 1/2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 8 8 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas , , or or more more if if needed needed salt salt and and ground ground black black pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic powder powder , , onion onion powder powder , , chili chili powder powder , , ground ground cumin cumin , , and and red red pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; stir stir until until mixed mixed . . Add Add potatoes potatoes ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until softened softened , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir luncheon luncheon meat meat into into the the potato potato mixture mixture ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until lightly lightly browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Heat Heat tortillas tortillas in in a a toaster toaster oven oven or or conventional conventional oven oven on on warm warm setting setting until until warmed warmed , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Place Place large large spoonfuls spoonfuls of of the the potato potato mixture mixture into into warmed warmed tortillas tortillas ; ; season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . 
1 slice slice whole whole wheat wheat bread bread 1/4 1/4 cup cup canned canned fat-free fat-free refried refried beans beans 1/2 1/2 avocado avocado 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime juice juice 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 dash dash salt salt 1 1 dash dash chili chili powder powder 1 1 dash dash ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 egg egg 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon pico pico de de gallo gallo 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon crumbled crumbled queso queso fresco fresco 1 1 dash dash hot hot sauce sauce ( ( such such as as Cholula® Cholula® ) ) | | Toast Toast whole whole wheat wheat bread bread until until golden golden brown brown . . Spread Spread refried refried beans beans on on top top . . Mash Mash avocado avocado in in a a small small bowl bowl ; ; stir stir in in lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic powder powder , , salt salt , , chili chili powder powder , , and and cumin cumin . . Spread Spread avocado avocado over over refried refried beans beans . . Heat Heat a a small small nonstick nonstick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Crack Crack egg egg into into the the skillet skillet ; ; cook cook until until white white is is set set , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and cook cook until until yolk yolk is is set set , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes more more . . Place Place egg egg over over mashed mashed avocado avocado . . Garnish Garnish with with pico pico de de gallo gallo , , queso queso fresco fresco , , and and hot hot sauce sauce . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , cut cut into into noodle noodle shapes shapes 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 4 4 Mexican Mexican squash squash , , cut cut into into noodle noodle shapes shapes 1 1 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) can can Mexican-style Mexican-style corn corn ( ( such such as as Green Green Giant® Giant® Mexicorn® Mexicorn® ) ) , , drained drained 4 4 ounces ounces Neufchatel Neufchatel cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can fire-roasted fire-roasted diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers 1/4 1/4 cup cup milk milk | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until onion onion is is translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in squash squash and and corn corn ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until squash squash is is softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to individual individual serving serving plates plates . . Combine Combine Neufchatel Neufchatel cheese cheese , , chile chile peppers peppers , , and and milk milk in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until sauce sauce is is smooth smooth . . Heat Heat sauce sauce in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until warmed warmed through through , , 2 2 to to 4 4 minutes minutes ; ; pour pour over over squash squash mixture mixture . 
2 Anaheim Anaheim chile chile peppers peppers 3 3 pounds pounds boneless boneless pork pork shoulder shoulder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon sea sea salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons bacon bacon fat fat 1 1 cup cup beef beef broth broth 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 onion onion , , halved halved and and sliced sliced 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and sliced sliced 1 1 yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and sliced sliced 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 bay bay leaf leaf Toppings Toppings : : 2 2 ripe ripe avocados avocados , , sliced sliced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 limes limes , , quartered quartered | | Set Set oven oven rack rack about about 6 6 inches inches from from the the heat heat source source and and preheat preheat the the oven oven 's 's broiler broiler . . Line Line a a baking baking sheet sheet with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Halve Halve Anaheim Anaheim chile chile peppers peppers lengthwise lengthwise ; ; remove remove the the stem stem , , seeds seeds , , and and ribs ribs . . Place Place peppers peppers cut-side cut-side down down onto onto the the prepared prepared baking baking sheet sheet . . Cook Cook in in the the preheated preheated broiler broiler until until peppers peppers are are blackened blackened and and blistered blistered , , 5 5 to to 8 8 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer to to a a bowl bowl and and over over tightly tightly with with plastic plastic wrap wrap . . Let Let peppers peppers steam steam as as they they cool cool , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove and and discard discard skins skins ; ; chop chop flesh flesh . . Season Season pork pork with with salt salt and and black black pepper pepper . . Heat Heat bacon bacon fat fat in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add pork pork ; ; cook cook until until browned browned , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . Transfer Transfer pork pork to to a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour in in beef beef broth broth and and coat coat pork pork with with tomato tomato paste paste . . Add Add roasted roasted chile chile pepper pepper , , onion onion , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , yellow yellow bell bell pepper pepper , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , chili chili powder powder , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and bay bay leaf leaf . . Cook Cook on on Low Low until until pork pork is is tender tender , , about about 8 8 hours hours . . Shred Shred pork pork using using 2 2 forks forks . . Serve Serve with with avocados avocados , , cilantro cilantro , , and and lime lime wedges wedges . 
2 cups cups ice ice 12 12 fluid fluid ounces ounces margarita margarita mix mix 6 6 fluid fluid ounces ounces tequila tequila 4 4 fluid fluid ounces ounces mango mango nectar nectar 1 1 lime lime , , halved halved 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon white white sugar sugar , , or or as as needed needed | | Combine Combine ice ice , , margarita margarita mix mix , , tequila tequila , , and and mango mango nectar nectar in in a a blender blender ; ; squeeze squeeze 1 1 lime lime half half into into the the blender blender . . Blend Blend until until cocktail cocktail is is smooth smooth . . Cut Cut remaining remaining lime lime half half into into wedges wedges . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 to to 1/2 1/2 inch inch of of sugar sugar onto onto a a small small , , shallow shallow plate plate . . Moisten Moisten rims rims of of 4 4 glasses glasses with with a a wedge wedge of of lime lime , , dip dip the the moistened moistened glasses glasses into into sugar sugar . . Pour Pour cocktail cocktail into into the the prepared prepared glasses glasses . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts in in a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle taco taco seasoning seasoning on on both both sides sides of of chicken chicken breasts breasts , , and and pour pour salsa salsa over over all all . . Bake Bake at at 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 25 25 to to 35 35 minutes minutes , , or or until until chicken chicken is is tender tender and and juicy juicy and and its its juices juices run run clear clear . . Sprinkle Sprinkle chicken chicken evenly evenly with with cheese cheese , , and and continue continue baking baking for for an an additional additional 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly . . Top Top with with sour sour cream cream if if desired desired , , and and serve serve . 
1 1/3 1/3 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons liquid liquid smoke smoke flavoring flavoring ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages fajita fajita seasoning seasoning 4 4 large large avocados avocados - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted , , and and sliced sliced into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch wedges wedges 4 4 large large bell bell peppers peppers - - stemmed stemmed , , seeded seeded , , and and sliced sliced into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch wedges wedges 1 1 extra extra large large onion onion , , sliced sliced into into rings rings and and rings rings separated separated 12 12 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas | | Whisk Whisk water water , , oil oil , , liquid liquid smoke smoke , , and and fajita fajita seasoning seasoning together together in in a a bowl bowl and and pour pour into into a a resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag . . Add Add avocados avocados , , bell bell pepper pepper , , and and onion onion , , coat coat with with the the marinade marinade , , squeeze squeeze out out excess excess air air , , and and seal seal the the bag bag . . Marinate Marinate in in the the refrigerator refrigerator for for 1 1 hour hour to to overnight overnight ; ; turn turn occasionally occasionally . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 225 225 degrees degrees F F ( ( 110 110 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Stack Stack tortillas tortillas ; ; wrap wrap in in aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Place Place in in oven oven to to warm warm . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium medium heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil the the grate grate . . Drain Drain marinade marinade from from vegetable vegetable mixture mixture ; ; transfer transfer to to a a plate plate . . Separate Separate avocados avocados from from onions onions and and bell bell peppers peppers . . Place Place onions onions and and peppers peppers , , in in 1 1 layer layer , , onto onto grill grill using using tongs tongs ; ; cook cook until until tender tender , , 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , turning turning as as needed needed . . Transfer Transfer to to an an oven-proof oven-proof pan pan ; ; cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Place Place in in the the preheated preheated oven oven to to keep keep warm warm . . Place Place avocados avocados in in 1 1 layer layer onto onto grill grill ; ; cook cook , , turning turning once once , , until until browned browned , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Fill Fill tortillas tortillas with with avocado avocado and and onion onion mixture mixture ; ; roll roll or or fold fold tortilla tortilla around around filling filling . 
cooking spray spray ( ( such such as as Pam® Pam® ) ) 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans ( ( optional optional ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chiles chiles 15 15 taco taco shells shells , , broken broken up up , , or or more more to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking pan pan with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Cook Cook ground ground beef beef and and onions onions in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until beef beef is is browned browned , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain grease grease . . Stir Stir in in water water and and taco taco seasoning seasoning ; ; cook cook , , stirring stirring often often , , until until thickened thickened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add refried refried beans beans , , salsa salsa , , olives olives , , and and green green chiles chiles . . Cook Cook and and stir stir over over low low heat heat until until ingredients ingredients are are warmed warmed through through , , 3 3 to to 4 4 minutes minutes . . Place Place half half of of the the taco taco shells shells in in the the bottom bottom of of the the baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour in in half half of of the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with half half of of the the Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining taco taco shells shells , , ground ground beef beef mixture mixture , , and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly , , 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1/2 1/2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 8.5 8.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn bread bread mix mix ( ( such such as as Jiffy® Jiffy® ) ) 1/3 1/3 cup cup milk milk 1 1 egg egg 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon honey honey 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon corn corn oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup corn corn ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup corn corn chips chips , , partially partially crushed crushed | | Cook Cook and and stir stir ground ground beef beef in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until brown brown and and crumbled crumbled , , 7 7 to to 10 10 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain grease grease . . Add Add taco taco seasoning seasoning ; ; mix mix well well . . Stir Stir in in salsa salsa and and black black beans beans ; ; remove remove from from heat heat . . Grease Grease a a 9-inch 9-inch pie pie pan pan or or casserole casserole dish dish . . Mix Mix corn corn bread bread mix mix , , milk milk , , egg egg , , honey honey , , and and corn corn oil oil together together in in a a bowl bowl until until batter batter is is smooth smooth ; ; stir stir in in corn corn . . Pour Pour batter batter into into pie pie pan pan . . Layer Layer ground ground beef beef mixture mixture over over batter batter ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Top Top with with corn corn chips chips . . Place Place in in a a cold cold oven oven ; ; set set temperature temperature to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake until until sides sides are are golden golden brown brown , , 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes . 
1/4 cup cup butter butter 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded pork pork 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package fajita fajita seasoning seasoning 6 6 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas Toppings Toppings : : 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded lettuce lettuce 1 1 cup cup tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup Shredded Shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) carton carton sour sour cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Heat Heat butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until melted melted , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in onion onion and and green green pepper pepper ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until softened softened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add shredded shredded pork pork , , water water , , and and fajita fajita seasoning seasoning ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Place Place tortillas tortillas in in a a skillet skillet over over low low heat heat until until warmed warmed , , 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove tortillas tortillas from from the the skillet skillet . . Spoon Spoon shredded shredded pork pork mixture mixture into into tortillas tortillas ; ; top top with with lettuce lettuce , , tomato tomato , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , salsa salsa , , and and sour sour cream cream . 
2 cups cups fresh fresh blueberries blueberries , , divided divided 1 1 white white onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped purple purple Cherokee Cherokee tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 8 8 habanero habanero peppers peppers , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1/4 1/4 cup cup lime lime juice juice 5 5 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 pinch pinch Himalayan Himalayan salt salt , , or or to to taste taste | | Place Place 1 1 cup cup blueberries blueberries into into a a blender blender . . Cover Cover and and blend blend until until pureed pureed . . Coarsely Coarsely chop chop remaining remaining blueberries blueberries . . Combine Combine pureed pureed blueberries blueberries , , chopped chopped blueberries blueberries , , onion onion , , tomatoes tomatoes , , sugar sugar , , habanero habanero peppers peppers , , cilantro cilantro , , lime lime juice juice , , garlic garlic , , and and Himalayan Himalayan salt salt together together in in a a bowl bowl . 
1 jicama jicama , , cut cut into into spirals spirals 1 1 English English cucumber cucumber , , cut cut into into spirals spirals 1/2 1/2 red red onion onion , , cut cut into into spirals spirals 2 2 mini mini sweet sweet bell bell peppers peppers , , cut cut into into matchstick matchstick pieces pieces 1 1 large large jalapeno jalapeno , , cut cut into into spirals spirals 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon avocado avocado oil oil 2 2 avocados avocados , , mashed mashed 1 1 pinch pinch garlic garlic salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 4 4 prepared prepared tostada tostada shells shells 10 10 grape grape tomatoes tomatoes , , halved halved 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 lime lime , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Place Place jicama jicama , , cucumber cucumber , , red red onion onion , , and and bell bell peppers peppers together together in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Toss Toss with with lime lime juice juice and and avocado avocado oil oil until until combined combined ; ; refrigerate refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Season Season the the mashed mashed avocado avocado with with garlic garlic salt salt . . Spread Spread the the avocado avocado mixture mixture evenly evenly over over tostada tostada shells shells . . Top Top evenly evenly with with jicama jicama mixture mixture and and grape grape tomatoes tomatoes . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro and and serve serve with with lime lime wedges wedges . 
8 cups cups water water , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup quick-cooking quick-cooking oats oats 1 1 cinnamon cinnamon stick stick 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Combine Combine 5 5 cups cups water water , , quick-cooking quick-cooking oats oats , , and and cinnamon cinnamon stick stick in in a a blender blender ; ; blend blend until until combined combined , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour the the oat oat mixture mixture through through a a strainer strainer , , collecting collecting the the liquids liquids in in a a pitcher pitcher and and reserving reserving the the solids solids . . Pour Pour remaining remaining water water through through the the strainer strainer containing containing the the solids solids and and into into the the pitcher pitcher . . Add Add sugar sugar and and vanilla vanilla extract extract ; ; refrigerate refrigerate until until chilled chilled , , about about 1 1 hour hour . 
1 cup cup plain plain yogurt yogurt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped fresh fresh basil basil 1 1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 1 1 envelope envelope taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 4.6 4.6 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco shells shells 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 2/3 2/3 large large English English cucumber cucumber , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 large large carrots carrots , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 4 4 sun-dried sun-dried tomatoes tomatoes , , cut cut into into strips strips hot hot sauce sauce to to taste taste | | Stir Stir yogurt yogurt and and basil basil together together in in a a bowl bowl ; ; place place in in refrigerator refrigerator . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , and and cook cook and and stir stir beef beef until until browned browned and and crumbly crumbly , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes ; ; drain drain and and discard discard grease grease . . Stir Stir water water and and taco taco seasoning seasoning into into beef beef ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low ; ; simmer simmer beef beef mixture mixture until until thickened thickened , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Spoon Spoon about about 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon yogurt yogurt mixture mixture into into each each taco taco shell shell ; ; layer layer in in beef beef mixture mixture , , mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese , , cucumber cucumber , , carrots carrots , , and and a a few few strips strips of of sun-dried sun-dried tomato tomato . . Top Top with with hot hot sauce sauce and and remaining remaining yogurt yogurt . 
8 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 1/4 1/4 cups cups vegetable vegetable shortening shortening 1 1 cup cup water water | | Sift Sift flour flour onto onto a a flat flat work work surface surface . . Make Make a a well well in in the the center center . . Add Add sugar sugar and and salt salt . . Gradually Gradually mix mix in in shortening shortening and and water water with with a a fork fork until until dough dough comes comes together together . . Knead Knead until until smooth smooth , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Divide Divide dough dough into into 30 30 pieces pieces . . Roll Roll each each piece piece out out into into a a thin thin , , 6-inch 6-inch round round . 
6 pounds pounds bone-in bone-in chicken chicken breasts breasts water water to to cover cover 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 onion onion , , quartered quartered 4 4 tomatillos tomatillos - - stemmed stemmed , , husked husked , , and and halved halved ( ( optional optional ) ) 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 4 4 New New Mexico Mexico dried dried red red chile chile pods pods , , stemmed stemmed and and seeded seeded 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 cup cup lard lard 1 1 cup cup masa masa harina harina 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) bag bag shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese blend blend | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts in in baking baking pans pans and and cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake chicken chicken in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until tender tender and and cooked cooked through through , , 1 1 1/4 1/4 to to 1 1 1/2 1/2 hour hour . . An An instant-read instant-read thermometer thermometer inserted inserted near near the the bone bone should should read read 165 165 degrees degrees F F ( ( 74 74 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Cool Cool until until easily easily handled handled . . Remove Remove skin skin and and discard discard . . Bone Bone chicken chicken and and chop chop into into 1/2-inch 1/2-inch pieces pieces . . Combine Combine bones bones with with drippings drippings from from baking baking pans pans in in a a large large pot pot ; ; add add enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and simmer simmer for for 1 1 hour hour . . Strain Strain broth broth and and discard discard bones bones . . Place Place tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , tomatillos tomatillos , , garlic garlic , , and and red red chile chile pods pods in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor ; ; puree puree until until chile chile pods pods are are reduced reduced to to small small flecks flecks . . Pour Pour into into a a pot pot . . Mix Mix 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth , , salt salt , , cumin cumin , , and and oregano oregano into into pureed pureed mixture mixture in in the the pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil ; ; reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in chicken chicken . . Remove Remove from from heat heat . . Microwave Microwave 1 1 cup cup chicken chicken broth broth and and lard lard together together in in a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl until until lard lard is is just just melted melted , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix in in masa masa harina harina with with your your hands hands to to make make a a smooth smooth paste paste . . Press Press paste paste evenly evenly into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 10x13-inch 10x13-inch baking baking pan pan . . Spread Spread chicken chicken mixture mixture on on top top . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until chicken chicken is is heated heated through through , , about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese blend blend on on top top . . Continue Continue baking baking until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and starting starting to to bubble bubble , , 3 3 to to 5 5 minutes minutes . . Let Let stand stand before before serving serving , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 2 2 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black olives olives , , sliced sliced 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chili chili peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar taco taco sauce sauce 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans refried refried beans beans 12 12 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 9 9 ounces ounces shredded shredded Colby Colby cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , saute saute the the ground ground beef beef for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion and and garlic garlic , , and and saute saute for for 5 5 more more minutes minutes . . Drain Drain any any excess excess fat fat , , if if desired desired . . Mix Mix in in the the olives olives , , green green chile chile peppers peppers , , tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers , , taco taco sauce sauce and and refried refried beans beans . . Stir Stir mixture mixture thoroughly thoroughly , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and let let simmer simmer for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . . Spread Spread a a thin thin layer layer of of the the meat meat mixture mixture in in the the bottom bottom of of a a 4 4 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish . . Cover Cover with with a a layer layer of of tortillas tortillas followed followed by by more more meat meat mixture mixture , , then then a a layer layer of of cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat tortilla tortilla , , meat meat , , cheese cheese pattern pattern until until all all the the tortillas tortillas are are used used , , topping topping off off with with a a layer layer of of meat meat mixture mixture and and cheese cheese . . Bake Bake for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until cheese cheese is is slightly slightly brown brown and and bubbly bubbly . 
1/4 cup cup cajeta cajeta , , sweetened sweetened caramelized caramelized goat goat 's 's milk milk syrup syrup 350 350 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 6 6 tablespoons tablespoons unsweetened unsweetened cocoa cocoa powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking soda soda 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , softened softened 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 egg egg 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons strong strong brewed brewed coffee coffee 1 1 cup cup whole whole milk milk Flan Flan : : 2 2 1/2 1/2 cups cups evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease the the base base and and sides sides of of a a 9-inch 9-inch fluted fluted tube tube pan pan . . Dust Dust lightly lightly with with flour flour ; ; tap tap to to remove remove excess excess . . Fill Fill a a shallow shallow baking baking pan pan with with enough enough water water to to come come 1/3 1/3 of of the the way way up up the the sides sides of of the the tube tube pan pan . . Place Place water water bath bath in in the the oven oven to to warm warm up up while while it it is is preheating preheating . . Pour Pour caramel caramel sauce sauce into into a a microwave-safe microwave-safe bowl bowl . . Microwave Microwave until until warm warm and and pourable pourable , , about about 1 1 minute minute . . Pour Pour into into the the prepared prepared tube tube pan pan , , covering covering the the base base completely completely . . Mix Mix flour flour , , cocoa cocoa powder powder , , baking baking soda soda , , and and baking baking powder powder together together in in a a bowl bowl . . Beat Beat 1/2 1/2 cup cup plus plus 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter in in a a bowl bowl with with an an electric electric mixer mixer until until smooth smooth . . Add Add sugar sugar ; ; beat beat until until light light and and fluffy fluffy . . Beat Beat in in 1 1 egg egg and and coffee coffee . . Alternate Alternate adding adding flour flour mixture mixture and and milk milk , , mixing mixing well well between between additions additions . . Pour Pour cake cake batter batter evenly evenly over over caramel caramel in in the the tube tube pan pan . . Combine Combine evaporated evaporated milk milk , , condensed condensed milk milk , , 4 4 eggs eggs , , and and vanilla vanilla extract extract in in the the bowl bowl of of a a food food processor processor ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour over over cake cake batter batter through through a a fine fine sieve sieve . . Bake Bake in in the the water water bath bath in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into the the chocolate chocolate cake cake comes comes out out clean clean , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Let Let cake cake cool cool , , about about 1 1 hour hour . . Carefully Carefully run run a a thin thin knife knife around around the the edges edges to to loosen loosen the the cake cake , , cover cover with with a a serving serving plate plate , , and and flip flip onto onto the the plate plate . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked long-grain long-grain rice rice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat and and add add rice rice . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until puffed puffed and and golden golden . . While While rice rice is is cooking cooking , , sprinkle sprinkle with with salt salt and and cumin cumin . . Stir Stir in in onions onions and and cook cook until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce and and chicken chicken broth broth ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 to to 25 25 minutes minutes . . Fluff Fluff with with a a fork fork . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 pint pint sour sour cream cream 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt ( ( optional optional ) ) 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili powder powder 1/3 1/3 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 8 8 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar taco taco sauce sauce 3/4 3/4 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium , , non-stick non-stick skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook chicken chicken until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Drain Drain excess excess fat fat . . Cube Cube the the chicken chicken and and return return it it to to the the skillet skillet . . Add Add the the onion onion , , sour sour cream cream , , Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , parsley parsley , , oregano oregano and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Heat Heat until until cheese cheese melts melts . . Stir Stir in in salt salt , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , water water , , chili chili powder powder , , green green pepper pepper and and garlic garlic . . Roll Roll even even amounts amounts of of the the mixture mixture in in the the tortillas tortillas . . Arrange Arrange in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Cover Cover with with taco taco sauce sauce and and 3/4 3/4 cup cup Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Bake Bake uncovered uncovered in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 20 20 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1 1 large large tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 bunch bunch chopped chopped green green onions onions 1 1 small small head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce , , shredded shredded 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives , , drained drained 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , blend blend the the taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix and and refried refried beans beans . . Spread Spread the the mixture mixture onto onto a a large large serving serving platter platter . . Mix Mix the the sour sour cream cream and and cream cream cheese cheese in in a a medium medium bowl bowl . . Spread Spread over over the the refried refried beans beans . . Top Top the the layers layers with with salsa salsa . . Place Place a a layer layer of of tomato tomato , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , green green onions onions and and lettuce lettuce over over the the salsa salsa , , and and top top with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Garnish Garnish with with black black olives olives . 
1 ( ( 3 3 1/2 1/2 ) ) pound pound boneless boneless pork pork shoulder shoulder , , trimmed trimmed and and cut cut into into 2 2 inch inch chunks chunks 2 2 oranges oranges , , quartered quartered 1 1 large large white white onion onion , , quartered quartered 6 6 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled and and crushed crushed 1/4 1/4 cup cup kosher kosher salt salt 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon whole whole black black peppercorns peppercorns 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves | | Place Place the the pork pork shoulder shoulder , , oranges oranges , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , kosher kosher salt salt , , cumin cumin , , black black peppercorns peppercorns , , and and bay bay leaves leaves into into a a large large Dutch Dutch oven oven . . Add Add water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce the the heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Skim Skim off off any any foam foam that that rises rises to to the the top top . . Cover Cover loosely loosely , , and and simmer simmer until until the the meat meat is is tender tender , , about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Allow Allow the the pork pork to to cool cool , , covered covered , , in in the the broth broth for for 1 1 hour hour . . Shred Shred the the meat meat with with two two forks forks . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 6 6 cups cups canned canned kidney kidney beans beans , , drained drained 2 2 cups cups water water 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons prepared prepared mustard mustard 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 pinch pinch cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 cups cups mashed mashed cooked cooked sweet sweet potatoes potatoes 12 12 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas , , warmed warmed 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a medium medium skillet skillet and and saute saute onion onion and and garlic garlic until until soft soft . . Mash Mash beans beans into into the the onion onion mixture mixture . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in water water ; ; heat heat until until warm warm , , 2 2 to to 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in the the soy soy sauce sauce , , chili chili powder powder , , mustard mustard , , cumin cumin , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Divide Divide bean bean mixture mixture and and mashed mashed sweet sweet potatoes potatoes evenly evenly between between the the tortillas tortillas ; ; top top with with cheese cheese . . Fold Fold tortillas tortillas burrito-style burrito-style around around the the fillings fillings and and place place on on a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until warmed warmed through through , , about about 12 12 minutes minutes . 
2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat - - cut cut into into chunks chunks 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups sour sour cream cream 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chilies chilies , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package mild mild taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 5 5 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 3 3 cups cups Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , shredded shredded , , divided divided 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives | | Place Place the the chicken chicken in in a a large large pot pot and and add add water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce the the heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer until until the the chicken chicken pieces pieces are are no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Shred Shred chicken chicken by by placing placing two two forks forks back back to to back back and and pulling pulling meat meat apart apart . . Set Set the the shredded shredded chicken chicken aside aside . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , combine combine the the cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup , , sour sour cream cream , , and and chili chili powder powder in in a a saucepan saucepan . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer over over low low heat heat , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , then then turn turn off off the the heat heat and and cover cover to to keep keep warm warm . . Heat Heat the the butter butter in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the onion onion ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until the the onion onion has has softened softened and and turned turned translucent translucent , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the shredded shredded chicken chicken , , chopped chopped green green chilies chilies , , taco taco seasoning seasoning , , half half of of the the bunch bunch of of chopped chopped green green onion onion , , and and water water . . Allow Allow to to simmer simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in the the lime lime juice juice , , onion onion powder powder , , and and garlic garlic powder powder ; ; simmer simmer for for an an additional additional 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Stir Stir 1 1 cup cup of of the the soup soup mixture mixture into into the the skillet skillet with with the the chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Spread Spread the the remaining remaining soup soup mixture mixture on on the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Fill Fill each each tortilla tortilla with with chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Sprinkle Sprinkle Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese over over the the chicken chicken filling filling before before folding folding the the tortillas tortillas , , reserving reserving half half of of the the shredded shredded cheese cheese for for topping topping the the enchiladas enchiladas . . Fold Fold tortillas tortillas over over the the filling filling and and place place seam-side seam-side down down in in the the prepared prepared pan pan . . Pour Pour enchilada enchilada sauce sauce evenly evenly over over the the enchiladas enchiladas . . Cover Cover with with the the remaining remaining 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the reserved reserved chopped chopped green green onions onions and and the the sliced sliced olives olives on on top top of of the the cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until filling filling is is heated heated through through and and the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbling bubbling , , about about 25 25 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat - - cubed cubed 1/8 1/8 cup cup red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 10 10 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 tomato tomato , , diced diced 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded lettuce lettuce 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa | | Saute Saute chicken chicken in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium high high heat heat for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Add Add vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , green green onion onion , , garlic garlic and and oregano oregano . . Simmer Simmer for for an an extra extra 10 10 minutes minutes . . Heat Heat an an iron iron skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place a a tortilla tortilla in in the the pan pan , , warm warm , , and and turn turn over over to to heat heat the the other other side side . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas . . Serve Serve lime lime chicken chicken mixture mixture in in warm warm tortillas tortillas topped topped with with tomato tomato , , lettuce lettuce , , cheese cheese and and salsa salsa . 
1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cornstarch cornstarch 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 egg egg 1 1 cup cup beer beer 1/2 1/2 cup cup plain plain yogurt yogurt 1/2 1/2 cup cup mayonnaise mayonnaise 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced capers capers 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried dill dill weed weed 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 quart quart oil oil for for frying frying 1 1 pound pound cod cod fillets fillets , , cut cut into into 2 2 to to 3 3 ounce ounce portions portions 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn tortillas tortillas 1/2 1/2 medium medium head head cabbage cabbage , , finely finely shredded shredded | | To To make make beer beer batter batter : : In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine flour flour , , cornstarch cornstarch , , baking baking powder powder , , and and salt salt . . Blend Blend egg egg and and beer beer , , then then quickly quickly stir stir into into the the flour flour mixture mixture ( ( do do n't n't worry worry about about a a few few lumps lumps ) ) . . To To make make white white sauce sauce : : In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together yogurt yogurt and and mayonnaise mayonnaise . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in fresh fresh lime lime juice juice until until consistency consistency is is slightly slightly runny runny . . Season Season with with jalapeno jalapeno , , capers capers , , oregano oregano , , cumin cumin , , dill dill , , and and cayenne cayenne . . Heat Heat oil oil in in deep-fryer deep-fryer to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Dust Dust fish fish pieces pieces lightly lightly with with flour flour . . Dip Dip into into beer beer batter batter , , and and fry fry until until crisp crisp and and golden golden brown brown . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Lightly Lightly fry fry tortillas tortillas ; ; not not too too crisp crisp . . To To serve serve , , place place fried fried fish fish in in a a tortilla tortilla , , and and top top with with shredded shredded cabbage cabbage , , and and white white sauce sauce . 
1 onion onion , , peeled peeled and and halved halved 3 3 cups cups dry dry pinto pinto beans beans , , rinsed rinsed 1/2 1/2 fresh fresh jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced garlic garlic 5 5 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 3/4 3/4 teaspoons teaspoons fresh fresh ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin , , optional optional 9 9 cups cups water water | | Place Place the the onion onion , , rinsed rinsed beans beans , , jalapeno jalapeno , , garlic garlic , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , and and cumin cumin into into a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Pour Pour in in the the water water and and stir stir to to combine combine . . Cook Cook on on High High for for 8 8 hours hours , , adding adding more more water water as as needed needed . . Note Note : : if if more more than than 1 1 cup cup of of water water has has evaporated evaporated during during cooking cooking , , then then the the temperature temperature is is too too high high . . Once Once the the beans beans have have cooked cooked , , strain strain them them , , and and reserve reserve the the liquid liquid . . Mash Mash the the beans beans with with a a potato potato masher masher , , adding adding the the reserved reserved water water as as needed needed to to attain attain desired desired consistency consistency . 
2 quarts quarts water water 8 8 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried parsley parsley 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon onion onion powder powder 5 5 cubes cubes chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar chunky chunky salsa salsa 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans peeled peeled and and diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole peeled peeled tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed tomato tomato soup soup 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chili chili beans beans , , undrained undrained 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , combine combine water water , , chicken chicken , , salt salt , , pepper pepper , , garlic garlic powder powder , , parsley parsley , , onion onion powder powder and and bouillon bouillon cubes cubes . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer 1 1 hour hour , , or or until until chicken chicken juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove chicken chicken , , reserve reserve broth broth . . Shred Shred chicken chicken . . In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook onion onion and and garlic garlic in in olive olive oil oil until until slightly slightly browned browned . . Stir Stir in in salsa salsa , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , whole whole tomatoes tomatoes , , tomato tomato soup soup , , chili chili powder powder , , corn corn , , chili chili beans beans , , sour sour cream cream , , shredded shredded chicken chicken and and 5 5 cups cups broth broth . . Simmer Simmer 30 30 minutes minutes . 
2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into cubes cubes 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 cup cup frozen frozen corn corn kernels kernels 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 cup cup chunky chunky salsa salsa 8 8 ounces ounces corn corn tortilla tortilla chips chips 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook and and stir stir chicken chicken in in the the oil oil for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the garlic garlic and and cumin cumin and and mix mix well well . . Then Then add add the the broth broth , , corn corn , , onion onion , , chili chili powder powder , , lemon lemon juice juice , , and and salsa salsa . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer for for about about 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . . Break Break up up some some tortilla tortilla chips chips into into individual individual bowls bowls and and pour pour soup soup over over chips chips . . Top Top with with the the Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese and and a a little little sour sour cream cream . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can kidney kidney beans beans , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cannellini cannellini beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen corn corn kernels kernels 1 1 red red onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon lemon lemon juice juice 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon salt salt 1 1 clove clove crushed crushed garlic garlic 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 dash dash hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder | | In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine beans beans , , bell bell peppers peppers , , frozen frozen corn corn , , and and red red onion onion . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together olive olive oil oil , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , lemon lemon juice juice , , sugar sugar , , salt salt , , garlic garlic , , cilantro cilantro , , cumin cumin , , and and black black pepper pepper . . Season Season to to taste taste with with hot hot sauce sauce and and chili chili powder powder . . Pour Pour olive olive oil oil dressing dressing over over vegetables vegetables ; ; mix mix well well . . Chill Chill thoroughly thoroughly , , and and serve serve cold cold . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili beans beans , , with with liquid liquid 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can kidney kidney beans beans with with liquid liquid 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , with with liquid liquid 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 cups cups water water 2 2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans peeled peeled and and diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix | | In In a a medium medium skillet skillet , , cook cook the the ground ground beef beef until until browned browned over over medium medium heat heat . . Drain Drain , , and and set set aside aside . . Place Place the the ground ground beef beef , , onion onion , , chili chili beans beans , , kidney kidney beans beans , , corn corn , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , water water , , diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , green green chile chile peppers peppers and and taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Mix Mix to to blend blend , , and and cook cook on on Low Low setting setting for for 8 8 hours hours . 
2 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 red red bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers 3 3 ounces ounces cream cream cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Wrap Wrap tortillas tortillas in in foil foil and and place place in in oven oven heated heated to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 minutes minutes or or until until heated heated through through . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a 10-inch 10-inch skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , garlic garlic and and jalapenos jalapenos in in skillet skillet , , cook cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Pour Pour beans beans into into skillet skillet , , cook cook 3 3 minutes minutes stirring stirring . . Cut Cut cream cream cheese cheese into into cubes cubes and and add add to to skillet skillet with with salt salt . . Cook Cook for for 2 2 minutes minutes stirring stirring occasionally occasionally . . Stir Stir cilantro cilantro into into mixture mixture . . Spoon Spoon mixture mixture evenly evenly down down center center of of warmed warmed tortilla tortilla and and roll roll tortillas tortillas up up . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
2 cloves cloves garlic garlic 3 3 serrano serrano peppers peppers 1 1 pound pound small small green green tomatillos tomatillos , , husks husks removed removed 1 1 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil for for frying frying 9 9 corn corn tortillas tortillas 3 3 cups cups water water 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons chicken chicken bouillon bouillon granules granules 1/2 1/2 store-bought store-bought rotisserie rotisserie chicken chicken , , meat meat removed removed and and shredded shredded 1/4 1/4 head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce , , shredded shredded 1 1 cup cup cilantro cilantro leaves leaves 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container Mexican Mexican crema crema , , crema crema fresca fresca 1 1 cup cup grated grated cotija cotija cheese cheese | | Cover Cover a a large large griddle griddle with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and preheat preheat to to medium-high medium-high . . Cook Cook the the garlic garlic , , serrano serrano peppers peppers , , and and tomatillos tomatillos on on the the hot hot griddle griddle until until toasted toasted and and blackened blackened , , turning turning occasionally occasionally , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes for for the the garlic garlic , , 10 10 minutes minutes for for the the peppers peppers , , and and 15 15 minutes minutes for for the the tomatillos tomatillos . . Remove Remove to to a a bowl bowl and and allow allow to to cool cool . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a small small , , deep deep skillet skillet to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Using Using kitchen kitchen tongs tongs , , fry fry the the tortillas tortillas individually individually , , turning turning them them once once . . They They should should n't n't be be in in the the hot hot oil oil for for more more than than 5 5 seconds seconds per per side side . . Remove Remove excess excess oil oil with with paper paper towels towels and and keep keep warm warm . . Remember Remember that that the the hotter hotter the the oil oil , , the the less less that that the the tortillas tortillas will will absorb absorb . . Place Place the the toasted toasted garlic garlic , , serrano serrano peppers peppers , , tomatillos tomatillos , , and and the the water water in in a a blender blender and and blend blend until until smooth smooth ; ; pour pour into into a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Dissolve Dissolve the the chicken chicken bouillon bouillon into into the the mixture mixture , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and cook cook at at a a simmer simmer until until slightly slightly thickened thickened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . The The sauce sauce should should n't n't be be too too thick thick . . Soak Soak three three tortillas tortillas in in the the sauce sauce , , one one at at a a time time , , for for a a few few seconds seconds , , fill fill them them with with shredded shredded chicken chicken , , sprinkle sprinkle the the meat meat with with some some of of the the sauce sauce , , roll roll them them and and place place them them seam seam side side down down on on a a pasta pasta bowl bowl . . Spoon Spoon a a generous generous amount amount of of sauce sauce over over them them and and top top them them with with lettuce lettuce , , cilantro cilantro , , crema crema , , and and cotija cotija cheese cheese . . Pour Pour a a little little more more sauce sauce over over the the whole whole thing thing if if desired desired . . Repeat Repeat the the procedure procedure twice twice more more . . Serve Serve immediately immediately . 
2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon Mexican Mexican vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans refrigerated refrigerated crescent crescent rolls rolls 3/4 3/4 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter , , room room temperature temperature 1/4 1/4 cup cup honey honey | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Prepare Prepare a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Beat Beat the the cream cream cheese cheese with with 1 1 cup cup of of sugar sugar and and the the vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Unroll Unroll the the cans cans of of crescent crescent roll roll dough dough , , and and use use a a rolling rolling pin pin to to shape shape each each piece piece into into 9x13 9x13 inch inch rectangles rectangles . . Press Press one one piece piece into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Evenly Evenly spread spread the the cream cream cheese cheese mixture mixture into into the the baking baking dish dish , , then then cover cover with with the the remaining remaining piece piece of of crescent crescent dough dough . . Stir Stir together together 3/4 3/4 cup cup of of sugar sugar , , cinnamon cinnamon , , and and butter butter . . Dot Dot the the mixture mixture over over the the top top of of the the cheesecake cheesecake . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the crescent crescent dough dough has has puffed puffed and and turned turned golden golden brown brown , , about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the oven oven and and drizzle drizzle with with honey honey . . Cool Cool completely completely in in the the pan pan before before cutting cutting into into 12 12 squares squares . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 2 2 cups cups salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili beans beans , , drained drained 3 3 cups cups tortilla tortilla chips chips , , crushed crushed 2 2 cups cups sour sour cream cream 1 1 ( ( 2 2 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh tomato tomato 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , cook cook ground ground beef beef until until no no longer longer pink pink . . Stir Stir in in salsa salsa , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and simmer simmer 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed . . Stir Stir in in beans beans , , and and heat heat through through . . Spray Spray a a 9x13 9x13 baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Spread Spread crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips in in dish dish , , and and then then spoon spoon beef beef mixture mixture over over chips chips . . Spread Spread sour sour cream cream over over beef beef , , and and sprinkle sprinkle olives olives , , green green onion onion , , and and tomato tomato over over the the sour sour cream cream . . Top Top with with Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until hot hot and and bubbly bubbly . 
2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups vegetable vegetable broth broth 1 1 cup cup chunky chunky salsa salsa 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons thinly thinly sliced sliced green green onion onion | | In In an an electric electric food food processor processor or or blender blender , , combine combine beans beans , , broth broth , , salsa salsa , , and and cumin cumin . . Blend Blend until until fairly fairly smooth smooth . . Heat Heat the the bean bean mixture mixture in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat until until thoroughly thoroughly heated heated . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into 4 4 individual individual bowls bowls , , and and top top each each bowl bowl with with 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the sour sour cream cream and and 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon green green onion onion . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 2 2 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and green green chiles chiles 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep deep skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute rice rice , , onion onion , , and and bell bell pepper pepper until until rice rice is is browned browned and and onions onions are are tender tender . . Stir Stir in in water water and and tomatoes tomatoes . . Season Season with with chili chili powder powder and and salt salt . . Cover Cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until rice rice is is cooked cooked and and liquid liquid is is absorbed absorbed . 
1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 10.5 10.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1 1 cup cup whole whole corn corn kernels kernels , , cooked cooked 1 1 cup cup white white hominy hominy 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 2 2 boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cooked cooked and and cut cut into into bite-sized bite-sized pieces pieces crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips sliced sliced avocado avocado shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese chopped chopped green green onions onions | | In In a a medium medium stock stock pot pot , , heat heat oil oil over over medium medium heat heat . . Saute Saute onion onion and and garlic garlic in in oil oil until until soft soft . . Stir Stir in in chili chili powder powder , , oregano oregano , , tomatoes tomatoes , , broth broth , , and and water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and simmer simmer for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in corn corn , , hominy hominy , , chiles chiles , , beans beans , , cilantro cilantro , , and and chicken chicken . . Simmer Simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Ladle Ladle soup soup into into individual individual serving serving bowls bowls , , and and top top with with crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips , , avocado avocado slices slices , , cheese cheese , , and and chopped chopped green green onion onion . 
2 teaspoons teaspoons olive olive oil oil 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons finely finely chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon brown brown sugar sugar 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon red red pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter , , divided divided 8 8 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , divided divided | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , and and cook cook until until softened softened , , about about 2 2 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in beans beans and and corn corn , , then then add add sugar sugar , , salsa salsa , , and and pepper pepper flakes flakes ; ; mix mix well well . . Cook Cook until until heated heated through through , , about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Melt Melt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons of of the the butter butter in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Place Place a a tortilla tortilla in in the the skillet skillet , , sprinkle sprinkle evenly evenly with with cheese cheese , , then then top top with with some some of of the the bean bean mixture mixture . . Place Place another another tortilla tortilla on on top top , , cook cook until until golden golden , , then then flip flip and and cook cook on on the the other other side side . . Melt Melt more more butter butter as as needed needed , , and and repeat repeat with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas and and filling filling . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon crumbled crumbled dried dried oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1 1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast 2 2 bay bay leaves leaves 2 2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth | | Mix Mix together together salt salt , , garlic garlic powder powder , , cumin cumin , , oregano oregano , , coriander coriander , , and and cinnamon cinnamon in in a a bowl bowl . . Coat Coat pork pork with with the the spice spice mixture mixture . . Place Place the the bay bay leaves leaves in in the the bottom bottom of of a a slow slow cooker cooker and and place place the the pork pork on on top top . . Pour Pour the the chicken chicken broth broth around around the the sides sides of of the the pork pork , , being being careful careful not not to to rinse rinse off off the the spice spice mixture mixture . . Cover Cover and and cook cook on on Low Low until until the the pork pork shreds shreds easily easily with with a a fork fork , , about about 10 10 hours hours . . Turn Turn the the meat meat after after it it has has cooked cooked for for 5 5 hours hours . . When When the the pork pork is is tender tender , , remove remove from from slow slow cooker cooker , , and and shred shred with with two two forks forks . . Use Use cooking cooking liquid liquid as as needed needed to to moisten moisten the the meat meat . 
1 1/3 1/3 cups cups uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 2 2 2/3 2/3 cups cups water water 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups mild mild salsa salsa | | Place Place rice rice and and water water in in a a saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , place place chicken chicken breast breast halves halves into into a a large large saucepan saucepan , , and and fill fill the the pan pan with with water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and cook cook for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until done done . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from water water . . When When cool cool enough enough to to handle handle , , cut cut meat meat into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine Monterey Monterey Jack Jack and and Cheddar Cheddar cheeses cheeses . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , mix mix together together cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup , , cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup , , onion onion , , and and salsa salsa . . Layer Layer 1/2 1/2 of of the the rice rice , , 1/2 1/2 of of the the chicken chicken , , 1/2 1/2 of of the the soup soup and and salsa salsa mixture mixture , , and and 1/2 1/2 of of the the cheese cheese mixture mixture in in prepared prepared dish dish . . Repeat Repeat layers layers , , ending ending with with cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for about about 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until bubbly bubbly . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 3 3 pounds pounds skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves | | Place Place the the salsa salsa , , taco taco seasoning seasoning , , lime lime juice juice , , and and cilantro cilantro into into a a slow slow cooker cooker , , and and stir stir to to combine combine . . Add Add the the chicken chicken breasts breasts , , and and stir stir to to coat coat with with the the salsa salsa mixture mixture . . Cover Cover the the cooker cooker , , set set to to High High , , and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken is is very very tender tender , , about about 4 4 hours hours . . If If desired desired , , set set cooker cooker to to Low Low and and cook cook 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours . . Shred Shred chicken chicken with with 2 2 forks forks to to serve serve . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast half half 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced green green onion onion 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons minced minced red red bell bell pepper pepper 1/3 1/3 cup cup frozen frozen corn corn kernels kernels 1/4 1/4 cup cup black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed and and drained drained 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons diced diced jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers 1/2 1/2 tablespoon tablespoon minced minced fresh fresh parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/3 1/3 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 3/4 3/4 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 5 5 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 quart quart oil oil for for deep deep frying frying | | Rub Rub 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil over over chicken chicken breast breast . . In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook chicken chicken approximately approximately 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side , , until until meat meat is is no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and set set aside aside . . Heat Heat remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in green green onion onion and and red red pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until tender tender . . Dice Dice chicken chicken and and mix mix into into the the pan pan with with onion onion and and red red pepper pepper . . Mix Mix in in corn corn , , black black beans beans , , spinach spinach , , jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , parsley parsley , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , salt salt and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Cook Cook and and stir stir 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until well well blended blended and and tender tender . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and stir stir in in Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese so so that that it it melts melts . . Wrap Wrap tortillas tortillas with with a a clean clean , , lightly lightly moist moist cloth cloth . . Microwave Microwave on on high high approximately approximately 1 1 minute minute , , or or until until hot hot and and pliable pliable . . Spoon Spoon even even amounts amounts of of the the mixture mixture into into each each tortilla tortilla . . Fold Fold ends ends of of tortillas tortillas , , then then roll roll tightly tightly around around mixture mixture . . Secure Secure with with toothpicks toothpicks . . Arrange Arrange in in a a medium medium dish dish , , cover cover with with plastic plastic , , and and place place in in the the freezer freezer . . Freeze Freeze at at least least 4 4 hours hours . . In In a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet , , heat heat oil oil for for deep deep frying frying to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Deep Deep fry fry frozen frozen , , stuffed stuffed tortillas tortillas 10 10 minutes minutes each each , , or or until until dark dark golden golden brown brown . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels before before serving serving . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 2/3 2/3 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked white white rice rice 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans tomato tomato sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon powdered powdered saffron saffron 3 3 cups cups water water | | In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , heat heat vegetable vegetable oil oil over over a a medium-low medium-low heat heat . . Place Place the the onions onions in in the the pan pan , , and and saute saute until until golden golden . . Add Add rice rice to to pan pan , , and and stir stir to to coat coat grains grains with with oil oil . . Mix Mix in in green green bell bell pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , salt salt , , garlic garlic , , saffron saffron , , and and water water . . Cover Cover , , bring bring to to a a boil boil , , and and then then reduce reduce heat heat to to simmer simmer . . Cook Cook for for 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until rice rice is is tender tender . . Stir Stir occasionally occasionally . 
1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black-eyed black-eyed peas peas 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes , , drained drained 1 1 cup cup Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine black-eyed black-eyed peas peas , , black black beans beans , , corn corn , , onion onion , , green green bell bell pepper pepper , , jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers and and tomatoes tomatoes . . Season Season with with Italian-style Italian-style salad salad dressing dressing and and garlic garlic salt salt ; ; mix mix well well . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate overnight overnight to to blend blend flavors flavors . 
1/2 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/3 1/3 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lemon lemon juice juice 1 1 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon Dijon Dijon mustard mustard 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds flank flank steak steak | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix the the oil oil , , soy soy sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , lemon lemon juice juice , , Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , mustard mustard , , garlic garlic , , and and ground ground black black pepper pepper . . Place Place meat meat in in a a shallow shallow glass glass dish dish . . Pour Pour marinade marinade over over the the steak steak , , turning turning meat meat to to coat coat thoroughly thoroughly . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 6 6 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Oil Oil the the grill grill grate grate . . Place Place steaks steaks on on the the grill grill , , and and discard discard the the marinade marinade . . Grill Grill meat meat for for 5 5 minutes minutes per per side side , , or or to to desired desired doneness doneness . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - boiled boiled and and shredded shredded 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 2 2 cups cups cottage cottage cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper 12 12 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can red red enchilada enchilada sauce sauce | | To To Make Make Meat Meat Mixture Mixture : : Heat Heat oil oil in in medium medium skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken , , onion onion and and green green chile chile peppers peppers and and saute saute until until browned browned , , then then add add taco taco seasoning seasoning and and prepare prepare meat meat mixture mixture according according to to package package directions directions . . To To Make Make Cheese Cheese Mixture Mixture : : In In a a medium medium bowl bowl mix mix sour sour cream cream with with cottage cottage cheese cheese and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; stir stir until until well well blended blended . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . To To Assemble Assemble Enchiladas Enchiladas : : Heat Heat tortillas tortillas until until soft soft . . In In each each tortilla tortilla place place a a spoonful spoonful of of meat meat mixture mixture , , a a spoonful spoonful of of cheese cheese mixture mixture and and a a bit bit of of shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Roll Roll tortillas tortillas and and place place in in a a lightly lightly greased greased 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Top Top with with any any remaining remaining meat meat and and cheese cheese mixture mixture , , enchilada enchilada sauce sauce and and remaining remaining shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Bake Bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly . 
1 1/2 1/2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup unsalted unsalted butter butter 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 5 5 eggs eggs 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 cups cups whole whole milk milk 1 1 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweetened sweetened condensed condensed milk milk 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease and and flour flour one one 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking pan pan . . Sift Sift flour flour and and baking baking powder powder together together and and set set aside aside . . Cream Cream butter butter or or margarine margarine and and the the 1 1 cup cup sugar sugar together together until until fluffy fluffy . . Add Add eggs eggs and and the the 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla extract extract ; ; beat beat well well . . Add Add the the flour flour mixture mixture to to the the butter butter mixture mixture 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons at at a a time time ; ; mix mix until until well well blended blended . . Pour Pour batter batter into into prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Pierce Pierce cake cake several several times times with with a a fork fork . . Combine Combine the the whole whole milk milk , , condensed condensed milk milk , , and and evaporated evaporated milk milk together together . . Pour Pour over over the the top top of of the the cooled cooled cake cake . . Whip Whip whipping whipping cream cream , , the the remaining remaining 1 1 cup cup of of the the sugar sugar , , and and the the remaining remaining 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon vanilla vanilla together together until until thick thick . . Spread Spread over over the the top top of of cake cake . . Be Be sure sure and and keep keep cake cake refrigerated refrigerated , , enjoy enjoy ! 
1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon margarine margarine 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken breast breast 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 8 8 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a small small bowl bowl mix mix the the soup soup and and sour sour cream cream ; ; set set aside aside . . Melt Melt margarine margarine in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and chili chili powder powder , , and and saute saute until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the chicken chicken , , chile chile peppers peppers , , and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons of of the the soup soup mixture mixture . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until heated heated through through . . Spread Spread 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the soup soup mixture mixture in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Spoon Spoon about about 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of the the chicken chicken mixture mixture down down the the center center of of each each tortilla tortilla . . Roll Roll up up tortillas tortillas , , and and place place , , seam-side-down seam-side-down , , in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Spoon Spoon remaining remaining soup soup mixture mixture on on top top , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cheese cheese . . Bake Bake 25 25 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until bubbly bubbly and and lightly lightly browned browned . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili without without beans beans 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed tomato tomato soup soup 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 6 6 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas , , warmed warmed 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded lettuce lettuce 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Mexican Mexican blend blend cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions | | Crumble Crumble ground ground beef beef into into a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Add Add onion onion , , and and cook cook until until translucent translucent . . Drain Drain grease grease , , and and season season with with garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Stir Stir in in the the green green chilies chilies and and refried refried beans beans until until well well blended blended . . Turn Turn off off heat heat , , but but keep keep warm warm . . In In a a saucepan saucepan , , combine combine the the chili chili without without beans beans , , tomato tomato soup soup and and enchilada enchilada sauce sauce . . Mix Mix well well , , and and cook cook over over medium medium heat heat until until heated heated through through . . Turn Turn off off heat heat and and keep keep warm warm . . Place Place a a warmed warmed tortilla tortilla on on a a plate plate , , and and spoon spoon a a generous generous 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture onto onto the the center center . . Top Top with with lettuce lettuce and and tomato tomato to to your your liking liking . . Roll Roll up up tortilla tortilla over over the the filling filling . . Spoon Spoon a a generous generous amount amount of of the the sauce sauce over over the the top top , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with cheese cheese and and green green onions onions . . Heat Heat in in the the microwave microwave for for 30 30 seconds seconds , , or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining tortillas tortillas . 
1/4 cup cup vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons self-rising self-rising flour flour 1/4 1/4 cup cup New New Mexico Mexico or or California California chili chili powder powder 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion salt salt salt salt to to taste taste | | Heat Heat oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Stir Stir in in flour flour and and chili chili powder powder , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook until until lightly lightly brown brown , , stirring stirring constantly constantly to to prevent prevent burning burning flour flour . . Gradually Gradually stir stir in in tomato tomato sauce sauce , , water water , , cumin cumin , , garlic garlic powder powder , , and and onion onion salt salt into into the the flour flour and and chili chili powder powder until until smooth smooth , , and and continue continue cooking cooking over over medium medium heat heat approximately approximately 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until thickened thickened slightly slightly . . Season Season to to taste taste with with salt salt . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon cider cider vinegar vinegar 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 dash dash hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds boneless boneless , , skinless skinless chicken chicken thighs thighs , , cut cut into into strips strips 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , sliced sliced 1/2 1/2 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine Worcestershire Worcestershire sauce sauce , , vinegar vinegar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , chili chili powder powder , , garlic garlic and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Place Place chicken chicken in in sauce sauce , , and and turn turn once once to to coat coat . . Marinate Marinate for for 30 30 minutes minutes at at room room temperature temperature , , or or cover cover and and refrigerate refrigerate for for several several hours hours . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over high high heat heat . . Add Add chicken chicken strips strips to to the the pan pan , , and and saute saute for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion and and green green pepper pepper , , and and saute saute another another 3 3 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with lemon lemon juice juice . 
1 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 cup cup white white sugar sugar 4 4 eggs eggs 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cream-style cream-style corn corn 1/2 1/2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup yellow yellow cornmeal cornmeal 4 4 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , beat beat together together butter butter and and sugar sugar . . Beat Beat in in eggs eggs one one at at a a time time . . Blend Blend in in cream cream corn corn , , chiles chiles , , Monterey Monterey Jack Jack and and Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , stir stir together together flour flour , , cornmeal cornmeal , , baking baking powder powder and and salt salt . . Add Add flour flour mixture mixture to to corn corn mixture mixture ; ; stir stir until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour batter batter into into prepared prepared pan pan . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 1 1 hour hour , , until until a a toothpick toothpick inserted inserted into into center center of of the the pan pan comes comes out out clean clean . 
1 ( ( 4 4 pound pound ) ) chuck chuck roast roast 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups diced diced green green chile chile pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) bottle bottle hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder | | Trim Trim the the roast roast of of any any excess excess fat fat , , and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Heat Heat olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Place Place the the beef beef in in the the hot hot skillet skillet , , and and brown brown it it quickly quickly on on all all sides sides . . Transfer Transfer the the roast roast to to a a slow slow cooker cooker and and top top it it with with the the chopped chopped onion onion . . Season Season with with chile chile peppers peppers , , chili chili powder powder , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce , , and and garlic garlic powder powder . . Add Add enough enough water water to to cover cover 1/3 1/3 of of the the roast roast . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on High High for for 6 6 hours hours , , checking checking to to make make sure sure there there is is always always at at least least a a small small amount amount of of liquid liquid in in the the bottom bottom of of the the cooker cooker . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to Low Low , , and and continue continue cooking cooking for for 2 2 to to 4 4 hours hours , , or or until until meat meat is is totally totally tender tender and and falls falls apart apart . . Transfer Transfer the the roast roast to to a a bowl bowl and and shred shred it it using using two two forks forks ( ( reserve reserve 2 2 cups cups of of cooking cooking liquid liquid , , if if desired desired ) ) . . Serve Serve in in tacos tacos or or burritos burritos ( ( see see Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) . 
2 1/2 1/2 cups cups fresh fresh corn corn kernels kernels 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pound pound zucchini zucchini , , sliced sliced 3 3 roma roma ( ( plum plum ) ) tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1 1 fresh fresh poblano poblano chile chile pepper pepper - - seeded seeded , , deveined deveined , , and and chopped chopped salt salt and and black black pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup crumbled crumbled cotija cotija cheese cheese | | Place Place the the corn corn in in a a saucepan saucepan with with enough enough water water to to cover cover ; ; bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Place Place a a cover cover on on the the saucepan saucepan , , reduce reduce heat heat to to medium medium , , and and cook cook until until tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Drain Drain . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat ; ; cook cook and and stir stir the the onion onion and and garlic garlic in in the the hot hot oil oil until until fragrant fragrant , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix the the zucchini zucchini and and tomato tomato into into the the onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook together together 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the corn corn kernels kernels into into the the mixture mixture ; ; add add the the poblano poblano pepper pepper . . Season Season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper ; ; stir stir . . Cover Cover the the skillet skillet with with a a lid lid and and cook cook until until the the zucchini zucchini is is tender tender , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with the the cotija cotija cheese cheese to to serve serve . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 3/4 3/4 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 3/4 3/4 cup cup diced diced green green bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups whole whole kernel kernel corn corn 2 2 cups cups taco taco sauce sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans 8 8 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter , , melted melted shredded shredded lettuce lettuce 1 1 tomato tomato , , diced diced | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Brown Brown the the ground ground beef beef in in a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Drain Drain excess excess grease grease , , and and add add the the onion onion , , bell bell pepper pepper , , and and corn corn . . Cook Cook for for about about 5 5 more more minutes minutes , , or or until until vegetables vegetables are are tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the taco taco sauce sauce , , and and season season with with chili chili powder powder , , garlic garlic salt salt and and cumin cumin , , stirring stirring until until blended blended . . Cook Cook until until heated heated through through , , then then remove remove from from heat heat , , and and set set aside aside . . Open Open the the can can of of beans beans , , and and spread spread a a thin thin layer layer of of beans beans onto onto each each of of the the tortillas tortillas . . Spoon Spoon the the beef beef mixture mixture down down the the center center , , and and then then top top with with as as much much shredded shredded cheese cheese as as you you like like . . Roll Roll up up the the tortillas tortillas , , and and place place them them seam-side seam-side down down onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Brush Brush the the tortillas tortillas with with melted melted butter butter . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 to to 35 35 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until golden golden brown brown . . Serve Serve with with lettuce lettuce and and tomato tomato . 
1 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chipotle chipotle chile chile powder powder 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons brown brown sugar sugar 2 2 ( ( 3/4 3/4 pound pound ) ) pork pork tenderloins tenderloins | | Preheat Preheat grill grill for for medium-high medium-high heat heat . . In In a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag , , combine combine the the onion onion powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , chipotle chipotle chile chile powder powder , , salt salt , , and and brown brown sugar sugar . . Place Place tenderloins tenderloins in in bag bag and and shake shake , , coating coating meat meat evenly evenly . . Refrigerate Refrigerate for for 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Lightly Lightly oil oil grill grill grate grate , , and and arrange arrange meat meat on on grate grate . . Cook Cook for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , turning turning meat meat every every 5 5 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from grill grill , , let let stand stand for for 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes before before slicing slicing . 
1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can frozen frozen limeade limeade concentrate concentrate 12 12 fluid fluid ounces ounces tequila tequila 12 12 fluid fluid ounces ounces water water 12 12 fluid fluid ounces ounces beer beer ice ice 1 1 lime lime , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Pour Pour limeade limeade , , tequila tequila , , water water , , and and beer beer into into a a large large pitcher pitcher . . Stir Stir until until well-blended well-blended , , and and limeade limeade has has melted melted . . Add Add plenty plenty of of ice ice , , and and garnish garnish with with lime lime wedges wedges . . Adjust Adjust with with additional additional water water , , if if needed needed . 
3 pounds pounds flank flank steak steak 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 cup cup soy soy sauce sauce 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 1/2 1/2 cup cup olive olive oil oil 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground white white pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1 1 white white onion onion , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 2 2 large large tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 2 2 jalapeno jalapeno peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 1 1 white white onion onion , , quartered quartered 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , peeled peeled 4 4 dried dried New New Mexico Mexico chile chile pods pods 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 32 32 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups grated grated cotija cotija cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) 2 2 limes limes , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Lay Lay the the flank flank steak steak in in a a large large glass glass baking baking dish dish . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together the the vinegar vinegar , , soy soy sauce sauce , , 4 4 cloves cloves of of garlic garlic , , juice juice of of two two limes limes , , and and olive olive oil oil . . Season Season with with salt salt , , black black pepper pepper , , white white pepper pepper , , garlic garlic powder powder , , chili chili powder powder , , oregano oregano , , cumin cumin and and paprika paprika . . Whisk Whisk until until well well blended blended , , then then pour pour over over the the steak steak in in the the dish dish . . Turn Turn over over once once to to coat coat both both sides sides . . Cover Cover with with plastic plastic wrap wrap , , and and marinate marinate for for 1 1 to to 8 8 hours hours . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together 1 1 chopped chopped white white onion onion , , cilantro cilantro , , and and the the juice juice of of 1 1 lime lime . . Set Set aside aside to to use use as as a a relish relish for for the the tacos tacos . . Heat Heat a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Toast Toast chile chile pods pods in in the the skillet skillet for for a a few few minutes minutes , , then then remove remove to to a a bowl bowl of of water water to to soak soak for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 450 450 degrees degrees F F ( ( 230 230 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place the the tomatoes tomatoes , , 1 1 onion onion , , jalapenos jalapenos , , and and 4 4 cloves cloves of of garlic garlic onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Roast Roast in in the the oven oven for for about about 20 20 minutes minutes , , until until toasted toasted but but not not burnt burnt . . Place Place the the roasted roasted vegetables vegetables , , and and soaked soaked chile chile pods pods into into a a blender blender or or food food processor processor , , along along with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Puree Puree until until smooth smooth . . Heat Heat vegetable vegetable oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cut Cut the the marinated marinated flank flank steak steak into into cubes cubes or or strips strips . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring constantly constantly , , until until the the meat meat is is cooked cooked through through and and most most of of the the liquid liquid has has evaporated evaporated . . Warm Warm the the tortillas tortillas in in a a skillet skillet for for about about a a minute minute on on each each side side to to make make them them pliable pliable . . Tortillas Tortillas may may also also be be warmed warmed in in a a microwave microwave oven oven . . Arrange Arrange two two or or three three tortillas tortillas on on a a plate plate , , and and lay lay a a generous generous amount amount of of beef beef over over them them . . Top Top with with a a sprinkle sprinkle of of the the onion onion relish relish and and a a large large spoonful spoonful of of the the pureed pureed salsa salsa . . Add Add as as much much cheese cheese as as you you like like . . Garnish Garnish with with lime lime wedges wedges , , and and serve serve . 
2 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans stewed stewed tomatoes tomatoes 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , finely finely diced diced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1/2 1/2 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 cup cup canned canned sliced sliced green green chiles chiles , , or or to to taste taste 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro | | Place Place the the tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , lime lime juice juice , , salt salt , , green green chiles chiles , , and and cilantro cilantro in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor . . Blend Blend on on low low to to desired desired consistency consistency . 
4 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water | | Whisk Whisk the the flour flour , , salt salt , , and and baking baking powder powder together together in in a a mixing mixing bowl bowl . . Mix Mix in in the the lard lard with with your your fingers fingers until until the the flour flour resembles resembles cornmeal cornmeal . . Add Add the the water water and and mix mix until until the the dough dough comes comes together together ; ; place place on on a a lightly lightly floured floured surface surface and and knead knead a a few few minutes minutes until until smooth smooth and and elastic elastic . . Divide Divide the the dough dough into into 24 24 equal equal pieces pieces and and roll roll each each piece piece into into a a ball ball . . Preheat Preheat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Use Use a a well-floured well-floured rolling rolling pin pin to to roll roll a a dough dough ball ball into into a a thin thin , , round round tortilla tortilla . . Place Place into into the the hot hot skillet skillet , , and and cook cook until until bubbly bubbly and and golden golden ; ; flip flip and and continue continue cooking cooking until until golden golden on on the the other other side side . . Place Place the the cooked cooked tortilla tortilla in in a a tortilla tortilla warmer warmer ; ; continue continue rolling rolling and and cooking cooking the the remaining remaining dough dough . 
1 mango mango - - peeled peeled , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 1 1 avocado avocado - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted , , and and diced diced 4 4 medium medium tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and minced minced 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped red red onion onion 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , combine combine the the mango mango , , avocado avocado , , tomatoes tomatoes , , jalapeno jalapeno , , cilantro cilantro , , and and garlic garlic . . Stir Stir in in the the salt salt , , lime lime juice juice , , red red onion onion , , and and olive olive oil oil . . To To blend blend the the flavors flavors , , refrigerate refrigerate for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 cup cup long long grain grain white white rice rice 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chicken chicken broth broth 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 fresh fresh jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 tomato tomato , , seeded seeded and and chopped chopped 1 1 cube cube chicken chicken bouillon bouillon salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , halved halved | | In In a a medium medium sauce sauce pan pan , , cook cook rice rice in in oil oil over over medium medium heat heat for for about about 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour in in chicken chicken broth broth , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , green green pepper pepper , , jalapeno jalapeno , , and and diced diced tomato tomato . . Season Season with with bouillon bouillon cube cube , , salt salt and and pepper pepper , , cumin cumin , , cilantro cilantro , , and and garlic garlic . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , cover cover , , and and reduce reduce heat heat to to low low . . Cook Cook for for 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken breast breast meat meat 1 1 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can pinto pinto beans beans , , drained drained 6 6 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Colby-Jack Colby-Jack cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . In In a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , combine combine the the cream cream cheese cheese and and salsa salsa . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring until until melted melted and and well well blended blended . . Stir Stir in in chicken chicken and and pinto pinto beans beans . . Fill Fill tortillas tortillas with with the the mixture mixture , , roll roll and and place place into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread cheese cheese over over the the top top . . Cover Cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until heated heated through through . . Garnish Garnish with with your your favorite favorite toppings toppings such such as as lettuce lettuce and and tomatoes tomatoes , , or or sour sour cream cream . 
Marinade 1/4 1/4 cup cup extra extra virgin virgin olive olive oil oil 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons distilled distilled white white vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime zest zest 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons honey honey 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon seafood seafood seasoning seasoning , , such such as as Old Old Bay Bay 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 pound pound tilapia tilapia fillets fillets , , cut cut into into chunks chunks Dressing Dressing 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container light light sour sour cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup adobo adobo sauce sauce from from chipotle chipotle peppers peppers 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime zest zest 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon seafood seafood seasoning seasoning , , such such as as Old Old Bay Bay salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste Toppings Toppings 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package tortillas tortillas 3 3 ripe ripe tomatoes tomatoes , , seeded seeded and and diced diced 1 1 bunch bunch cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1 1 small small head head cabbage cabbage , , cored cored and and shredded shredded 2 2 limes limes , , cut cut in in wedges wedges | | To To make make the the marinade marinade , , whisk whisk together together the the olive olive oil oil , , vinegar vinegar , , lime lime juice juice , , lime lime zest zest , , honey honey , , garlic garlic , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , seafood seafood seasoning seasoning , , black black pepper pepper , , and and hot hot sauce sauce in in a a bowl bowl until until blended blended . . Place Place the the tilapia tilapia in in a a shallow shallow dish dish , , and and pour pour the the marinade marinade over over the the fish fish . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate 6 6 to to 8 8 hours hours . . To To make make the the dressing dressing , , combine combine the the sour sour cream cream and and adobo adobo sauce sauce in in a a bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in the the lime lime juice juice , , lime lime zest zest , , cumin cumin , , chili chili powder powder , , seafood seafood seasoning seasoning . . Add Add salt salt , , and and pepper pepper in in desired desired amounts amounts . . Cover Cover , , and and refrigerate refrigerate until until needed needed . . Preheat Preheat an an outdoor outdoor grill grill for for high high heat heat and and lightly lightly oil oil grate grate . . Set Set grate grate 4 4 inches inches from from the the heat heat . . Remove Remove fish fish from from marinade marinade , , drain drain off off any any excess excess and and discard discard marinade marinade . . Grill Grill fish fish pieces pieces until until easily easily flaked flaked with with a a fork fork , , turning turning once once , , about about 9 9 minutes minutes . . Assemble Assemble tacos tacos by by placing placing fish fish pieces pieces in in the the center center of of tortillas tortillas with with desired desired amounts amounts of of tomatoes tomatoes , , cilantro cilantro , , and and cabbage cabbage ; ; drizzle drizzle with with dressing dressing . . To To serve serve , , roll roll up up tortillas tortillas around around fillings fillings , , and and garnish garnish with with lime lime wedges wedges . 
1 cup cup butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons water water 2 2 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped almonds almonds 1/2 1/2 cup cup confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , cream cream the the butter butter and and sugar sugar . . Stir Stir in in vanilla vanilla and and water water . . Add Add the the flour flour and and almonds almonds , , mix mix until until blended blended . . Cover Cover and and chill chill for for 3 3 hours hours . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 325 325 degrees degrees . . Shape Shape dough dough into into balls balls or or crescents crescents . . Place Place on on an an unprepared unprepared cookie cookie sheet sheet and and bake bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Remove Remove from from pan pan to to cool cool on on wire wire racks racks . . When When cookies cookies are are cool cool , , roll roll in in confectioners confectioners ' ' sugar sugar . . Store Store at at room room temperature temperature in in an an airtight airtight container container . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup sliced sliced green green onions onions 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed , , drained drained and and squeezed squeezed dry dry 1 1 cup cup ricotta ricotta cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 10 10 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 19 19 ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add garlic garlic and and onion onion ; ; cook cook for for a a few few minutes minutes until until fragrant fragrant , , but but not not brown brown . . Stir Stir in in spinach spinach , , and and cook cook for for about about 5 5 more more minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat , , and and mix mix in in ricotta ricotta cheese cheese , , sour sour cream cream , , and and 1 1 cup cup of of Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese . . In In a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , warm warm tortillas tortillas one one at at a a time time until until flexible flexible , , about about 15 15 seconds seconds . . Spoon Spoon about about 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of the the spinach spinach mixture mixture onto onto the the center center of of each each tortilla tortilla . . Roll Roll up up , , and and place place seam seam side side down down in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour enchilada enchilada sauce sauce over over the the top top , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with the the remaining remaining cup cup of of Monterey Monterey Jack Jack . . Bake Bake for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until sauce sauce is is bubbling bubbling and and cheese cheese is is lightly lightly browned browned at at the the edges edges . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 3/4 3/4 pound pound cubed cubed skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast meat meat 1/2 1/2 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8.75 8.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can sweet sweet corn corn , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa water water as as needed needed 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Mexican-style Mexican-style cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups crushed crushed plain plain tortilla tortilla chips chips | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat , , saute saute chicken chicken in in oil oil until until cooked cooked through through and and no no longer longer pink pink inside inside . . Add Add taco taco seasoning seasoning , , beans beans , , corn corn , , salsa salsa and and a a little little water water to to prevent prevent drying drying out out . . Cover Cover skillet skillet and and simmer simmer over over medium medium low low heat heat for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken mixture mixture to to a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Top Top with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the cheese cheese and and crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Add Add remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup cheese cheese and and bake bake until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly . 
1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast , , diced diced 1 1 ( ( 1.27 1.27 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet fajita fajita seasoning seasoning 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 2 2 green green bell bell peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 2 2 red red bell bell peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 10 10 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon bacon bacon bits bits 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the broiler broiler . . Grease Grease a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Toss Toss the the chicken chicken with with the the fajita fajita seasoning seasoning , , then then spread spread onto onto the the baking baking sheet sheet . . Place Place under under the the broiler broiler and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken pieces pieces are are no no longer longer pink pink in in the the center center , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the green green bell bell peppers peppers , , red red bell bell peppers peppers , , onion onion , , and and chicken chicken . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until the the vegetables vegetables have have softened softened , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Layer Layer half half of of each each tortilla tortilla with with the the chicken chicken and and vegetable vegetable mixture mixture , , then then sprinkle sprinkle with with the the Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , bacon bacon bits bits , , and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack . . Fold Fold the the tortillas tortillas in in half half and and Place Place onto onto a a baking baking sheet sheet . . Bake Bake quesadillas quesadillas in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the cheeses cheeses have have melted melted , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds cod cod 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded sharp sharp Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1/2 1/2 cup cup coarsely coarsely crushed crushed corn corn chips chips 1 1 avocado avocado - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted and and sliced sliced 1/4 1/4 cup cup sour sour cream cream | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease one one 8x12 8x12 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Rinse Rinse fish fish fillets fillets under under cold cold water water , , and and pat pat dry dry with with paper paper towels towels . . Lay Lay fillets fillets side side by by side side in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the salsa salsa over over the the top top , , and and sprinkle sprinkle evenly evenly with with the the shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Top Top with with the the crushed crushed corn corn chips chips . . Bake Bake , , uncovered uncovered , , in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until fish fish is is opaque opaque and and flakes flakes with with a a fork fork . . Serve Serve topped topped with with sliced sliced avocado avocado and and sour sour cream cream . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon sour sour cream cream 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomatillo tomatillo salsa salsa 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon freshly freshly ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon celery celery salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons garlic garlic powder powder 1 1 bunch bunch fresh fresh cilantro cilantro , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon fresh fresh lime lime juice juice | | Combine Combine cream cream cheese cheese , , sour sour cream cream , , salsa salsa , , pepper pepper , , celery celery salt salt , , cumin cumin , , garlic garlic powder powder , , cilantro cilantro and and lime lime juice juice in in a a blender blender or or food food processor processor . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth and and creamy creamy . . Place Place in in a a serving serving bowl bowl . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 1.5 1.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry enchilada enchilada sauce sauce mix mix 10 10 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 2.25 2.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can sliced sliced black black olives olives , , drained drained | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat , , cook cook the the ground ground beef beef and and onion onion until until beef beef is is evenly evenly browned browned and and onion onion is is tender tender . . Prepare Prepare the the enchilada enchilada sauce sauce according according to to package package directions directions . . Pour Pour 1/4 1/4 cup cup of of the the sauce sauce into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . On On each each flour flour tortilla tortilla , , place place an an equal equal portion portion of of the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture and and about about 1 1 ounce ounce of of Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , reserving reserving at at least least 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of cheese cheese . . Then Then tightly tightly roll roll the the tortillas tortillas and and place place seam seam side side down down in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the remaining remaining sauce sauce over over the the top top of of the the enchiladas enchiladas and and sprinkle sprinkle with with the the remaining remaining cheese cheese and and olives olives . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes , , or or until until the the sauce sauce is is bubbly bubbly and and cheese cheese is is thoroughly thoroughly melted melted . 
2 tomatoes tomatoes , , diced diced 1 1 onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 2 2 limes limes , , juiced juiced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and minced minced salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil , , divided divided 2 2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cut cut into into strips strips 1/2 1/2 onion onion , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , thinly thinly sliced sliced 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 4 4 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1/4 1/4 cup cup sour sour cream cream , , for for topping topping | | In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , lime lime juice juice , , cilantro cilantro , , jalapeno jalapeno , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Set Set aside aside . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , heat heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil . . Add Add chicken chicken and and saute saute until until cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Remove Remove chicken chicken from from skillet skillet and and set set aside aside . . Put Put the the remaining remaining 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of olive olive oil oil in in the the hot hot skillet skillet and and saute saute the the sliced sliced onion onion and and green green pepper pepper until until tender tender . . Stir Stir in in the the minced minced garlic garlic and and saute saute until until the the aroma aroma is is strong strong . . Mix Mix in in half half of of the the pico pico de de gallo gallo and and chicken chicken breast breast meat meat . . Set Set aside aside ; ; keep keep warm warm . . In In a a heavy heavy skillet skillet , , heat heat one one flour flour tortilla tortilla . . Spread Spread 1/4 1/4 cup cup shredded shredded cheese cheese on on the the tortilla tortilla and and top top with with 1/2 1/2 the the chicken chicken mixture mixture . . Sprinkle Sprinkle another another 1/4 1/4 cup cup cheese cheese over over the the chicken chicken and and top top with with another another tortilla tortilla . . When When bottom bottom tortilla tortilla is is lightly lightly brown brown and and cheese cheese has has started started to to melt melt , , flip flip quesadilla quesadilla and and cook cook on on the the opposite opposite side side . . Remove Remove quesadilla quesadilla from from skillet skillet and and cut cut into into quarters quarters . . Repeat Repeat with with remaining remaining ingredients ingredients . . Serve Serve quesadillas quesadillas with with sour sour cream cream and and remaining remaining pico pico de de gallo gallo . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves garlic garlic salt salt to to taste taste 18 18 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas , , torn torn in in half half 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can green green chile chile enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container reduced reduced fat fat sour sour cream cream | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Lightly Lightly grease grease a a medium medium baking baking dish dish . . Season Season chicken chicken with with garlic garlic salt salt . . Arrange Arrange in in the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake 45 45 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until no no longer longer pink pink and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Cool Cool , , shred shred , , and and set set aside aside . . With With metal metal tongs tongs , , char char each each tortilla tortilla half half over over the the open open flame flame of of a a gas gas stove stove burner burner for for about about 1 1 minute minute , , until until lightly lightly puffed puffed . . Pour Pour about about 1/2 1/2 inch inch enchilada enchilada sauce sauce in in the the bottom bottom of of a a medium medium baking baking dish dish , , and and arrange arrange 6 6 tortillas tortillas in in a a single single layer layer . . Top Top with with 1/2 1/2 the the chicken chicken , , 1/3 1/3 cheese cheese , , 1/2 1/2 the the sour sour cream cream , , and and 1/3 1/3 of of the the remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce . . Repeat Repeat . . Coat Coat remaining remaining tortillas tortillas thoroughly thoroughly with with remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce , , and and arrange arrange on on top top of of the the layers layers . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with remaining remaining cheese cheese , , and and top top with with any any remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce Cover Cover , , and and bake bake 45 45 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Cool Cool slightly slightly before before serving serving . 
3 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil , , divided divided 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground turkey turkey 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili pepper pepper flakes flakes 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons tomato tomato paste paste 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can beef beef broth broth 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes , , or or coarsely coarsely chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes packed packed in in puree puree 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 medium medium onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 green green bell bell pepper pepper , , diced diced 3 3 medium medium zucchini zucchini , , halved halved lengthwise lengthwise and and sliced sliced 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , chopped chopped 1 1 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Heat Heat 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil in in a a large large stock stock pot pot over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Crumble Crumble turkey turkey into into the the pot pot , , stirring stirring with with a a wooden wooden spoon spoon to to break break apart apart as as much much as as possible possible . . Season Season with with taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix , , coriander coriander , , oregano oregano , , chili chili flakes flakes , , and and tomato tomato paste paste , , and and mix mix until until meat meat is is evenly evenly coated coated with with seasonings seasonings . . Continue Continue cooking cooking , , reducing reducing heat heat if if necessary necessary , , until until turkey turkey is is well well browned browned . . Pour Pour in in beef beef broth broth , , and and simmer simmer to to reduce reduce liquid liquid slightly slightly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Add Add salsa salsa , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and green green chilies chilies , , and and continue continue cooking cooking at at a a moderate moderate simmer simmer for for ten ten minutes minutes . . Adjust Adjust the the thickness thickness at at any any time time you you feel feel necessary necessary by by adding adding water water . . While While chili chili is is still still cooking cooking , , heat heat one one tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook onion onion and and green green bell bell pepper pepper , , stirring stirring occasionally occasionally for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until onion onion is is translucent translucent and and bell bell pepper pepper is is lightly lightly browned browned . . Add Add onion onion and and bell bell pepper pepper to to the the chili chili , , and and continue continue cooking cooking at at a a very very low low simmer simmer . . In In the the same same skillet skillet , , heat heat the the remaining remaining tablespoon tablespoon of of oil oil over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Add Add the the zucchini zucchini , , and and cook cook stirring stirring occasionally occasionally , , for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , or or until until lightly lightly browned browned . . Add Add the the zucchini zucchini to to the the chili chili , , reduce reduce heat heat , , and and continue continue cooking cooking 15 15 minutes minutes more more . . Again Again , , adjust adjust the the consistency consistency with with water water as as needed needed . . Ladle Ladle chili chili into into serving serving bowls bowls . . Top Top with with sour sour cream cream , , green green onion onion , , and and cheddar cheddar cheese cheese , , and and serve serve . 
2 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans whole whole green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 8 8 ounces ounces Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 8 8 ounces ounces Longhorn Longhorn or or Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , shredded shredded 2 2 eggs eggs , , beaten beaten 1 1 ( ( 5 5 ounce ounce ) ) can can evaporated evaporated milk milk 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1/2 1/2 cup cup milk milk 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Lay Lay half half of of the the chilies chilies evenly evenly in in bottom bottom of of baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with half half of of the the Jack Jack and and Cheddar Cheddar cheeses cheeses , , and and cover cover with with remaining remaining chilies chilies . . In In a a bowl bowl , , mix mix together together the the eggs eggs , , milk milk , , and and flour flour , , and and pour pour over over the the top top of of the the chilies chilies . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 25 25 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven , , pour pour tomato tomato sauce sauce evenly evenly over over the the top top , , and and continue continue baking baking another another 15 15 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with remaining remaining Jack Jack and and Cheddar Cheddar cheeses cheeses , , and and serve serve . 
10 cups cups water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons lard lard 2 2 cups cups dry dry pinto pinto beans beans , , rinsed rinsed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt | | Measure Measure water water and and lard lard into into a a large large pot pot . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and add add beans beans . . Cook Cook over over medium medium heat heat for for 2 2 to to 2 2 1/2 1/2 hours hours . . Season Season with with salt salt and and continue continue cooking cooking until until tender tender , , about about 30 30 more more minutes minutes . 
2 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans pinto pinto beans beans , , drained drained and and rinsed rinsed 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa , , divided divided 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes 7 7 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded reduced-fat reduced-fat Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mash mash pinto pinto beans beans . . Stir Stir in in 3/4 3/4 cup cup salsa salsa and and garlic garlic . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , mix mix together together 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa , , cilantro cilantro , , black black beans beans and and tomatoes tomatoes . . Place Place 1 1 tortilla tortilla in in a a pie pie plate plate or or tart tart dish dish . . Spread Spread 3/4 3/4 cup cup pinto pinto bean bean mixture mixture over over tortilla tortilla to to within within 1/2 1/2 inch inch of of edge edge . . Top Top with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup cheese cheese , , and and cover cover with with another another tortilla tortilla . . Spread Spread with with 2/3 2/3 cup cup black black bean bean mixture mixture , , and and top top with with 1/4 1/4 cup cup cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layering layering twice twice . . Cover Cover with with remaining remaining tortilla tortilla , , and and spread spread with with remaining remaining pinto pinto bean bean mixture mixture and and cheese cheese . . Cover Cover with with foil foil , , and and bake bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for about about 40 40 minutes minutes . . Cut Cut into into wedges wedges , , and and serve serve with with salsa salsa and and sour sour cream cream . 
2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder hot hot sauce sauce to to taste taste | | Place Place chicken chicken breasts breasts and and tomato tomato sauce sauce in in a a medium medium saucepan saucepan over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , then then add add the the salsa salsa , , seasoning seasoning , , cumin cumin , , garlic garlic and and chili chili powder powder . . Let Let simmer simmer for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . With With a a fork fork , , start start pulling pulling the the chicken chicken meat meat apart apart into into thin thin strings strings . . Keep Keep cooking cooking pulled pulled chicken chicken meat meat and and sauce sauce , , covered covered , , for for another another 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes . . Add Add hot hot sauce sauce to to taste taste and and stir stir together together ( ( Note Note : : You You may may need need to to add add a a bit bit of of water water if if the the mixture mixture is is cooked cooked too too high high and and gets gets too too thick thick . . ) 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups chunky chunky salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 3/4 3/4 cup cup creamy creamy salad salad dressing dressing ( ( e.g e.g . . Miracle Miracle Whip Whip ) ) 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 2 2 cups cups crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips 2 2 cups cups Colby Colby cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place ground ground beef beef in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring to to crumble crumble , , until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Drain Drain grease grease . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat , , and and stir stir the the salsa salsa , , corn corn , , mayonnaise mayonnaise and and chili chili powder powder into into the the beef beef . . In In a a 2 2 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish , , layer layer the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture , , tortilla tortilla chips chips and and cheese cheese twice twice , , ending ending with with cheese cheese on on top top . . Bake Bake for for 20 20 minutes minutes uncovered uncovered in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and dish dish is is thoroughly thoroughly heated heated . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon olive olive oil oil 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced onion onion 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 2 2 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried basil basil 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups water water | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the garlic garlic and and saute saute for for 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion , , oregano oregano , , chili chili powder powder , , basil basil , , ground ground black black pepper pepper , , salt salt , , cumin cumin , , parsley parsley , , salsa salsa and and tomato tomato sauce sauce . . Mix Mix together together and and then then stir stir in in the the water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low and and simmer simmer for for 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
2 avocados avocados 1 1 small small onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ripe ripe tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Peel Peel and and mash mash avocados avocados in in a a medium medium serving serving bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in onion onion , , garlic garlic , , tomato tomato , , lime lime juice juice , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Season Season with with remaining remaining lime lime juice juice and and salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste . . Chill Chill for for half half an an hour hour to to blend blend flavors flavors . 
2 cups cups cooked cooked corn corn kernels kernels 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced red red onion onion 1 1 cup cup peeled peeled , , diced diced jicama jicama 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced red red bell bell pepper pepper 1 1 cup cup fresh fresh cilantro cilantro leaves leaves , , chopped chopped 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced and and zested zested 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 6 6 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) fillets fillets tilapia tilapia 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 12 12 corn corn tortillas tortillas , , warmed warmed 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream , , or or to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat grill grill for for high high heat heat . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together corn corn , , red red onion onion , , jicama jicama , , red red bell bell pepper pepper , , and and cilantro cilantro . . Stir Stir in in lime lime juice juice and and zest zest . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , combine combine cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , ground ground black black pepper pepper , , and and salt salt . . Brush Brush each each fillet fillet with with olive olive oil oil , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with spices spices to to taste taste . . Arrange Arrange fillets fillets on on grill grill grate grate , , and and cook cook for for 3 3 minutes minutes per per side side . . For For each each fiery fiery fish fish taco taco , , top top two two corn corn tortillas tortillas with with fish fish , , sour sour cream cream , , and and corn corn salsa salsa . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 bunch bunch green green onions onions , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 diced diced fresh fresh jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 cup cup plain plain yogurt yogurt 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded mozzarella mozzarella cheese cheese 6 6 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook the the ground ground beef beef , , green green onion onion , , and and jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper until until the the beef beef is is evenly evenly brown brown . . Stir Stir in in water water and and taco taco seasoning seasoning . . Simmer Simmer until until water water has has evaporated evaporated . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix together together yogurt yogurt , , condensed condensed soup soup , , and and cheese cheese . . Divide Divide the the meat meat mixture mixture evenly evenly between between tortillas tortillas . . Place Place a a couple couple of of tablespoons tablespoons of of cheese cheese mixture mixture over over meat meat , , and and roll roll up up . . Place Place in in a a 7x11 7x11 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Repeat Repeat for for each each tortilla tortilla . . Spoon Spoon remaining remaining cheese cheese mixture mixture over over the the top top of of the the tortillas tortillas . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 21 21 ounce ounce ) ) can can apple apple pie pie filling filling 6 6 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/3 1/3 cup cup margarine margarine 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup packed packed brown brown sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spoon Spoon fruit fruit evenly evenly onto onto all all tortillas tortillas , , sprinkle sprinkle with with cinnamon cinnamon . . Roll Roll up up tortillas tortillas and and place place seam seam side side down down on on lightly lightly greased greased 8x8 8x8 baking baking pan pan . . Bring Bring margarine margarine , , sugars sugars and and water water to to a a boil boil in in a a medium medium sauce sauce pan pan . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer , , stirring stirring constantly constantly for for 3 3 minutes minutes . . Pour Pour sauce sauce evenly evenly over over tortillas tortillas ; ; sprinkle sprinkle with with extra extra cinnamon cinnamon on on top top if if desired desired . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Makes Makes 6 6 large large tortillas tortillas ; ; may may be be cut cut in in half half to to serve serve 12 12 . 
2 cups cups diced diced chicken chicken breast breast meat meat 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground coriander coriander 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 4.5 4.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can red red enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 8 8 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Mexican Mexican blend blend cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and spray spray with with vegetable vegetable cooking cooking spray spray . . Saute Saute chicken chicken with with cumin cumin and and coriander coriander until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through . . Transfer Transfer to to a a medium medium bowl bowl . . Stir Stir in in the the cilantro cilantro , , black black beans beans , , and and green green chile chile peppers peppers . . Spread Spread half half of of the the enchilada enchilada sauce sauce over over the the bottom bottom of of an an 11x7 11x7 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Place Place 4 4 tortillas tortillas over over the the sauce sauce , , overlapping overlapping if if necessary necessary . . Spoon Spoon half half of of the the chicken chicken mixture mixture over over the the tortillas tortillas , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with half half of of the the cheese cheese and and half half of of the the sour sour cream cream . . Spoon Spoon the the remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce over over the the cheese cheese , , and and make make another another layer layer of of tortillas tortillas . . Layer Layer the the remaining remaining chicken chicken mixture mixture over over the the tortillas tortillas . . Cover Cover dish dish with with a a lid lid or or aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven . . Remove Remove the the cover cover , , and and sprinkle sprinkle the the remaining remaining cheese cheese over over the the top top and and dot dot with with sour sour cream cream . . Continue Continue cooking cooking , , uncovered uncovered , , for for an an additional additional 5 5 to to 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or until until cheese cheese melts melts . . Let Let stand stand 10 10 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 10 10 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas , , quartered quartered 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar chunky chunky salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded Mexican Mexican cheese cheese blend blend | | Crumble Crumble the the ground ground beef beef into into a a skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat . . Cook Cook and and stir stir until until evenly evenly browned browned . . Add Add taco taco seasoning seasoning and and water water ; ; simmer simmer for for 15 15 minutes minutes over over low low heat heat . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the salsa salsa , , cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup and and cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup . . Mix Mix in in most most of of the the cheese cheese , , reserving reserving 3/4 3/4 cup cup for for later later . . Place Place a a layer layer of of tortillas tortillas covering covering the the bottom bottom of of a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Scoop Scoop a a layer layer of of the the ground ground beef beef over over that that , , and and then then spoon spoon a a layer layer of of the the cheese cheese mixture mixture . . Repeat Repeat the the layers layers until until you you run run out out of of stuff stuff , , ending ending with with a a layer layer of of tortillas tortillas on on the the top top . . Top Top with with remaining remaining cheese cheese . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook on on High High for for 45 45 minutes minutes to to 1 1 hour hour . 
1 cup cup water water 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 3 3 avocados avocados , , peeled peeled and and pitted pitted 1 1 lime lime , , juiced juiced 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt | | Bring Bring water water and and sugar sugar to to a a boil boil together together in in a a saucepan saucepan ; ; stir stir continually continually until until sugar sugar dissolves dissolves . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool . . Pour Pour sugar-water sugar-water mixture mixture into into a a blender blender with with avocados avocados , , lime lime juice juice , , and and salt salt ; ; blend blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour the the mixture mixture into into 10 10 ice ice pop pop molds molds . . Freeze Freeze until until solid solid yet yet still still soft soft , , about about 2 2 hours hours ; ; insert insert wooden wooden sticks sticks and and continue continue freezing freezing until until firm firm , , 12 12 to to 24 24 hours hours . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts cooking cooking spray spray 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 pinch pinch salt salt 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground black black pepper pepper 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat a a greased greased skillet skillet to to medium medium . . Rub Rub chicken chicken pieces pieces with with garlic garlic , , salt salt , , pepper pepper and and cumin cumin to to taste taste ; ; place place in in hot hot skillet skillet . . Cook Cook until until brown brown on on both both sides sides and and no no longer longer pink pink , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Transfer Transfer chicken chicken to to 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish or or casserole casserole dish dish , , top top with with salsa salsa and and cheese cheese , , and and bake bake in in preheated preheated oven oven until until cheese cheese is is bubbly bubbly and and starts starts to to brown brown , , 15 15 to to 20 20 minutes minutes . 
1/4 cup cup lime lime juice juice 1/3 1/3 cup cup water water 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons soy soy sauce sauce 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon liquid liquid smoke smoke flavoring flavoring 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper | | In In a a large large resealable resealable plastic plastic bag bag , , mix mix together together the the lime lime juice juice , , water water , , olive olive oil oil , , garlic garlic , , soy soy sauce sauce , , salt salt , , and and liquid liquid smoke smoke flavoring flavoring . . Stir Stir in in cayenne cayenne and and black black pepper pepper . . Place Place desired desired meat meat in in the the marinade marinade , , and and refrigerate refrigerate at at least least 2 2 hours hours , , or or overnight overnight . . Cook Cook as as desired desired . 
2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 1 1 pound pound ) ) package package frozen frozen pepper pepper and and onion onion stir stir fry fry mix mix 2 2 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 ( ( 28 28 ounce ounce ) ) can can crushed crushed tomatoes tomatoes 3 3 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 4 4 ( ( 14 14 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans vegetable vegetable broth broth salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn 12 12 ounces ounces tortilla tortilla chips chips 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 avocado avocado - - peeled peeled , , pitted pitted and and diced diced | | Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the pepper pepper and and onion onion stir stir fry fry mix mix , , garlic garlic , , and and cumin cumin , , and and cook cook 5 5 minutes minutes , , until until vegetables vegetables are are tender tender . . Mix Mix in in the the tomatoes tomatoes and and chile chile peppers peppers . . Pour Pour in in the the broth broth , , and and season season with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer 30 30 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix corn corn into into the the soup soup , , and and continue continue cooking cooking 5 5 minutes minutes . . Serve Serve in in bowls bowls over over equal equal amounts amounts of of tortilla tortilla chips chips . . Top Top with with cheese cheese and and avocado avocado . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 4 4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8.75 8.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 1 1 pinch pinch ground ground cumin cumin | | In In a a large large skillet skillet , , heat heat oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Brown Brown chicken chicken breasts breasts on on both both sides sides . . Add Add tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chile chile peppers peppers , , beans beans and and corn corn . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and let let simmer simmer for for 25 25 to to 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through and and juices juices run run clear clear . . Add Add a a dash dash of of cumin cumin and and serve serve . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup 1/4 1/4 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili beans beans , , drained drained 6 6 ( ( 12 12 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas , , cut cut into into strips strips 6 6 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cooked cooked and and shredded shredded 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , mix mix sour sour cream cream , , salsa salsa , , cream cream of of chicken chicken soup soup , , onion onion and and chili chili beans beans . . Layer Layer the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish with with 1/3 1/3 tortilla tortilla strips strips . . Top Top with with 1/3 1/3 chicken chicken , , 1/3 1/3 sour sour cream cream mixture mixture and and 1/3 1/3 Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layering layering with with remaining remaining ingredients ingredients . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until golden golden and and bubbly bubbly . . Let Let stand stand about about 10 10 minutes minutes , , or or as as long long as as you you can can stand stand it it ! ! ! ! ! ! You You 're 're done done ! 
3 tomatoes tomatoes , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup finely finely diced diced onion onion 5 5 serrano serrano chiles chiles , , finely finely chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons lime lime juice juice | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , stir stir together together tomatoes tomatoes , , onion onion , , chili chili peppers peppers , , cilantro cilantro , , salt salt , , and and lime lime juice juice . . Chill Chill for for one one hour hour in in the the refrigerator refrigerator before before serving serving . 
1/2 cup cup butter butter , , softened softened 1/3 1/3 cup cup masa masa harina harina 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups frozen frozen whole-kernel whole-kernel corn corn , , thawed thawed 1/4 1/4 cup cup cornmeal cornmeal 1/3 1/3 cup cup white white sugar sugar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons heavy heavy whipping whipping cream cream 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon baking baking powder powder | | In In a a medium medium bowl bowl beat beat butter butter until until it it is is creamy creamy . . Add Add the the Mexican Mexican corn corn flour flour and and water water and and beat beat until until well well mixed mixed . . Using Using a a food food processor processor , , process process thawed thawed corn corn , , but but leave leave chunky chunky . . Stir Stir into into the the butter butter mixture mixture . . In In a a separate separate bowl bowl , , mix mix cornmeal cornmeal , , sugar sugar , , cream cream , , salt salt , , and and baking baking powder powder . . Add Add to to corn corn flour flour mixture mixture and and stir stir to to combine combine . . Pour Pour batter batter into into an an ungreased ungreased 8x8 8x8 inch inch baking baking pan pan . . Smooth Smooth batter batter and and cover cover with with aluminum aluminum foil foil . . Place Place pan pan into into a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish that that is is filled filled a a third third of of the the way way with with water water . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated 350 350 degree degree oven oven F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) oven oven for for 50 50 to to 60 60 minutes minutes . . Allow Allow to to cool cool for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Use Use an an ice ice cream cream scoop scoop for for easy easy removal removal from from pan pan . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans 1 1 small small onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper salt salt to to taste taste | | In In a a medium medium saucepan saucepan , , combine combine beans beans , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low . . Season Season with with cilantro cilantro , , cayenne cayenne , , and and salt salt . . Simmer Simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes , , and and serve serve . 
2 cups cups uncooked uncooked brown brown rice rice 4 4 cups cups water water 4 4 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans black black beans beans 2 2 ( ( 15.5 15.5 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans pinto pinto beans beans 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced tomatoes tomatoes and and green green chiles chiles 16 16 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 pound pound shredded shredded pepperjack pepperjack cheese cheese | | Combine Combine rice rice and and water water in in a a saucepan saucepan , , and and bring bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until tender tender . . Remove Remove from from heat heat , , and and cool cool . . Place Place black black beans beans and and pinto pinto beans beans into into a a colander colander or or strainer strainer , , and and rinse rinse . . Add Add corn corn and and diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chilies chilies , , and and toss toss to to mix mix . . Transfer Transfer to to a a large large bowl bowl , , and and mix mix in in rice rice and and cheese cheese . . Divide Divide the the mixture mixture evenly evenly among among the the tortillas tortillas , , and and roll roll up up . . Wrap Wrap individually individually in in plastic plastic wrap wrap , , place place into into a a large large freezer freezer bag bag , , and and freeze freeze . . Reheat Reheat as as needed needed in in the the microwave microwave for for lunch lunch or or snacks snacks . 
2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 ( ( 1.27 1.27 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet dry dry fajita fajita seasoning seasoning , , divided divided 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 11 11 ounce ounce ) ) can can Mexican-style Mexican-style corn corn 1/2 1/2 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package mixed mixed salad salad greens greens 1 1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 tomato tomato , , cut cut into into wedges wedges | | Rub Rub chicken chicken evenly evenly with with 1/2 1/2 the the fajita fajita seasoning seasoning . . Heat Heat the the oil oil in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat , , and and cook cook the the chicken chicken 8 8 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , or or until until juices juices run run clear clear ; ; set set aside aside . . In In a a large large saucepan saucepan , , mix mix beans beans , , corn corn , , salsa salsa and and other other 1/2 1/2 of of fajita fajita seasoning seasoning . . Heat Heat over over medium medium heat heat until until warm warm . . Prepare Prepare the the salad salad by by tossing tossing the the greens greens , , onion onion and and tomato tomato . . Top Top salad salad with with chicken chicken and and dress dress with with the the bean bean and and corn corn mixture mixture . 
1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili beans beans 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato sauce sauce 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can or or bottle bottle beer beer 2 2 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans diced diced tomatoes tomatoes with with green green chilies chilies , , undrained undrained 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning 3 3 whole whole skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breasts breasts 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese ( ( optional optional ) ) sour sour cream cream ( ( optional optional ) ) crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips ( ( optional optional ) ) | | Place Place the the onion onion , , chili chili beans beans , , black black beans beans , , corn corn , , tomato tomato sauce sauce , , beer beer , , and and diced diced tomatoes tomatoes in in a a slow slow cooker cooker . . Add Add taco taco seasoning seasoning , , and and stir stir to to blend blend . . Lay Lay chicken chicken breasts breasts on on top top of of the the mixture mixture , , pressing pressing down down slightly slightly until until just just covered covered by by the the other other ingredients ingredients . . Set Set slow slow cooker cooker for for low low heat heat , , cover cover , , and and cook cook for for 5 5 hours hours . . Remove Remove chicken chicken breasts breasts from from the the soup soup , , and and allow allow to to cool cool long long enough enough to to be be handled handled . . Stir Stir the the shredded shredded chicken chicken back back into into the the soup soup , , and and continue continue cooking cooking for for 2 2 hours hours . . Serve Serve topped topped with with shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , a a dollop dollop of of sour sour cream cream , , and and crushed crushed tortilla tortilla chips chips , , if if desired desired . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds boneless boneless skinless skinless chicken chicken breasts breasts , , cut cut into into bite-size bite-size pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 cubes cubes chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 1 1 cup cup hot hot water water 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 2 2 cups cups half-and-half half-and-half cream cream 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 14.75 14.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can cream-style cream-style corn corn 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chiles chiles 1 1 dash dash hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 1 1 tomato tomato , , chopped chopped fresh fresh cilantro cilantro sprigs sprigs , , for for garnish garnish ( ( optional optional ) ) | | In In a a Dutch Dutch oven oven , , brown brown chicken chicken , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic in in butter butter until until chicken chicken is is no no longer longer pink pink . . Dissolve Dissolve the the bouillon bouillon in in hot hot water water ; ; Pour Pour into into Dutch Dutch oven oven , , and and season season with with cumin cumin . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer for for 5 5 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir in in cream cream , , cheese cheese , , corn corn , , chilies chilies , , and and hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce . . Cook Cook , , stirring stirring frequently frequently , , until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted . . Stir Stir in in chopped chopped tomato tomato . . Garnish Garnish with with cilantro cilantro . 
1 bunch bunch cilantro cilantro 1 1 cup cup sour sour cream cream 2 2 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans jalapeno jalapeno salsa salsa 2 2 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans prepared prepared green green chile chile salsa salsa 2 2 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves , , cooked cooked and and shredded shredded 1 1 onion onion 12 12 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese | | To To Make Make Sour Sour Cream Cream Mixture Mixture : : In In a a blender blender or or food food processor processor , , puree puree cilantro cilantro , , sour sour cream cream , , jalapeno jalapeno salsa salsa and and 1/2 1/2 can can of of the the green green chile chile salsa salsa . . Set Set aside aside . . To To Make Make Chicken Chicken Mixture Mixture : : In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine shredded shredded chicken chicken , , onion onion and and the the remaining remaining 1 1 1/2 1/2 cans cans of of green green chile chile salsa salsa . . Mix Mix well well . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Heat Heat tortillas tortillas in in conventional conventional or or microwave microwave oven oven until until soft soft . . Pour Pour enough enough of of the the sour sour cream cream mixture mixture into into a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish to to coat coat the the bottom bottom . . Place Place 2 2 heaping heaping tablespoonfuls tablespoonfuls of of the the chicken chicken mixture mixture in in each each tortilla tortilla , , roll roll up up and and place place seam seam side side down down in in the the baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour remaining remaining sour sour cream cream mixture mixture over over all all and and top top with with shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Cover Cover dish dish tightly tightly with with aluminum aluminum foil foil and and bake bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) for for about about 30 30 minutes minutes , , or or until until dish dish is is heated heated through through and and bubbling bubbling . 
3 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups white white sugar sugar 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons vanilla vanilla extract extract 2 2 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans crescent crescent roll roll dough dough 1/2 1/2 cup cup melted melted butter butter 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon 1/4 1/4 cup cup sliced sliced almonds almonds | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Beat Beat the the cream cream cheese cheese with with 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups of of sugar sugar , , and and the the vanilla vanilla extract extract in in a a bowl bowl until until smooth smooth . . Unroll Unroll the the cans cans of of crescent crescent roll roll dough dough , , and and use use a a rolling rolling pin pin to to shape shape the the each each piece piece into into 9x13 9x13 inch inch rectangles rectangles . . Press Press one one piece piece into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Evenly Evenly spread spread the the cream cream cheese cheese mixture mixture into into the the baking baking dish dish , , then then cover cover with with the the remaining remaining piece piece of of crescent crescent dough dough . . Drizzle Drizzle the the melted melted butter butter evenly evenly over over the the top top of of the the cheesecake cheesecake . . Stir Stir the the remaining remaining 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of sugar sugar together together with with the the cinnamon cinnamon in in a a small small bowl bowl , , and and sprinkle sprinkle over over the the cheesecake cheesecake along along with with the the almonds almonds . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven until until the the crescent crescent dough dough has has puffed puffed and and turned turned golden golden brown brown , , about about 45 45 minutes minutes . . Cool Cool completely completely in in the the pan pan before before cutting cutting into into 12 12 squares squares . 
4 bone-in bone-in chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil 1 1 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) can can diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers , , drained drained 1 1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 8 8 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup heavy heavy cream cream | | Place Place the the chicken chicken breast breast halves halves into into a a saucepan saucepan , , and and fill fill with with enough enough water water to to cover cover . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , and and cook cook until until the the chicken chicken is is cooked cooked through through , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from the the water water , , and and set set aside aside to to cool cool . . Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken meat meat from from the the breasts breasts , , and and discard discard the the skin skin and and bones bones . . Set Set aside aside . . Heat Heat the the olive olive oil oil in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add the the green green chilies chilies , , jalapeno jalapeno and and garlic garlic . . Cook Cook and and stir stir for for a a few few minutes minutes , , until until fragrant fragrant , , then then stir stir in in the the cream cream cheese cheese and and half half of of the the Monterey Monterey Jack Jack . . As As the the cheese cheese begins begins to to melt melt , , gradually gradually stir stir in in the the water water . . Chop Chop the the chicken chicken meat meat , , and and stir stir into into the the skillet skillet . . Remove Remove from from the the heat heat . . Spoon Spoon the the chicken chicken mixture mixture into into tortillas tortillas , , and and roll roll up up . . Place Place the the rolls rolls seam seam side side down down in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the remaining remaining Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese over over the the top top , , then then pour pour cream cream over over all all . . Bake Bake for for 30 30 minutes minutes in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , or or until until the the enchiladas enchiladas are are golden golden brown brown on on the the top top . 
2 avocados avocados 1/2 1/2 lemon lemon , , juiced juiced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped onion onion 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons olive olive oil oil | | Cut Cut the the avocados avocados into into halves halves . . Remove Remove the the seeds seeds , , and and scoop scoop out out the the pulp pulp into into a a small small bowl bowl . . Use Use a a fork fork to to mash mash the the avocado avocado . . Stir Stir in in lemon lemon juice juice , , onion onion , , salt salt , , and and olive olive oil oil . . Cover Cover the the bowl bowl , , and and refrigerate refrigerate for for 1 1 hour hour before before serving serving . 
1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , softened softened 1 1 cup cup sour sour cream cream 2 2 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans refried refried beans beans 1/2 1/2 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 5 5 drops drops hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons dried dried parsley parsley 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , blend blend the the cream cream cheese cheese and and sour sour cream cream . . Mix Mix in in the the refried refried beans beans , , taco taco seasoning seasoning , , hot hot pepper pepper sauce sauce , , parsley parsley , , green green onions onions , , 1/2 1/2 the the Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese and and 1/2 1/2 the the Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese . . Transfer Transfer the the mixture mixture to to an an 8x12 8x12 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Top Top with with remaining remaining Cheddar Cheddar and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheeses cheeses . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 20 20 to to 30 30 minutes minutes , , until until cheese cheese is is slightly slightly browned browned . 
1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar-Monterey Cheddar-Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese blend blend 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1 1 cup cup guacamole guacamole 1 1 cup cup salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 2.25 2.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black olives olives , , chopped chopped 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped green green onions onions | | In In a a large large skillet skillet , , brown brown ground ground beef beef . . Set Set aside aside to to drain drain and and cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . Spread Spread the the beans beans into into the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch serving serving tray tray that that is is about about 1 1 1/2 1/2 inches inches deep deep . . Sprinkle Sprinkle 2 2 cups cups of of shredded shredded cheese cheese on on top top of of beans beans . . Sprinkle Sprinkle beef beef on on top top of of cheese cheese . . Spread Spread sour sour cream cream very very slowly slowly on on top top of of beef beef . . Spread Spread guacamole guacamole on on top top of of sour sour cream cream . . Pour Pour salsa salsa over over guacamole guacamole and and spread spread evenly evenly . . Sprinkle Sprinkle remaining remaining shredded shredded cheese cheese . . Sprinkle Sprinkle black black olives olives , , tomatoes tomatoes , , and and green green onions onions on on top top . . You You can can serve serve this this dish dish immediately immediately , , or or refrigerate refrigerate it it over over night night and and serve serve cold cold . . I I think think it it tastes tastes better better at at room room temperature temperature . 
1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can frozen frozen limeade limeade concentrate concentrate 6 6 fluid fluid ounces ounces tequila tequila 2 2 fluid fluid ounces ounces triple triple sec sec | | Fill Fill blender blender with with crushed crushed ice ice . . Pour Pour in in limeade limeade concentrate concentrate , , tequila tequila and and triple triple sec sec . . Blend Blend until until smooth smooth . . Pour Pour into into glasses glasses and and serve serve . 
2 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1 1 cup cup long-grain long-grain white white rice rice 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon lime lime zest zest 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 1/2 1/2 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro | | Bring Bring the the water water to to a a boil boil ; ; stir stir the the butter butter and and rice rice into into the the water water . . Cover Cover , , reduce reduce heat heat to to low low , , and and simmer simmer until until the the rice rice is is tender tender , , about about 20 20 minutes minutes . . Stir Stir the the lime lime zest zest , , lime lime juice juice , , and and cilantro cilantro into into the the cooked cooked rice rice just just before before serving serving . 
1 cup cup water water 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil 1 1 cup cup all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 quarts quarts oil oil for for frying frying 1/2 1/2 cup cup white white sugar sugar , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cinnamon cinnamon | | In In a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat , , combine combine water water , , 2 2 1/2 1/2 tablespoons tablespoons sugar sugar , , salt salt and and 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons vegetable vegetable oil oil . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil and and remove remove from from heat heat . . Stir Stir in in flour flour until until mixture mixture forms forms a a ball ball . . Heat Heat oil oil for for frying frying in in deep-fryer deep-fryer or or deep deep skillet skillet to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Pipe Pipe strips strips of of dough dough into into hot hot oil oil using using a a pastry pastry bag bag . . Fry Fry until until golden golden ; ; drain drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Combine Combine 1/2 1/2 cup cup sugar sugar and and cinnamon cinnamon . . Roll Roll drained drained churros churros in in cinnamon cinnamon and and sugar sugar mixture mixture . 
4 skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves - - cooked cooked and and shredded shredded 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar picante picante sauce sauce 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 36 36 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl combine combine the the shredded shredded chicken chicken , , picante picante sauce sauce and and ground ground cumin cumin . . Mix Mix together together . . In In a a small small skillet skillet heat heat vegetable vegetable oil oil over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Place Place a a corn corn tortilla tortilla in in the the oil oil for for 1 1 to to 2 2 seconds seconds on on either either side side to to soften soften . . Repeat Repeat with with all all of of the the tortillas tortillas ( ( if if possible possible , , have have someone someone help help you you do do this this ) ) . . Place Place tortillas tortillas on on paper paper towel towel to to soak soak up up some some of of the the oil oil . . Put Put 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of the the chicken chicken mixture mixture in in the the center center of of a a tortilla tortilla and and sprinkle sprinkle some some cheese cheese on on top top . . Roll Roll up up tortilla tortilla and and place place on on a a lightly lightly greased greased cookie cookie sheet sheet , , seam seam side side down down . . Repeat Repeat with with all all of of the the tortillas tortillas until until chicken chicken mixture mixture is is gone gone . . If If there there is is any any cheese cheese left left over over , , sprinkle sprinkle it it over over the the rolled rolled tortillas tortillas . . Bake Bake tortillas tortillas in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 15 15 to to 25 25 minutes minutes or or until until tortillas tortillas are are a a little little crispy crispy and and golden golden brown brown . 
Chicken filling filling : : 2 2 large large skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 3 3 cups cups water water 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/8 1/8 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 ( ( 7 7 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped green green chilies chilies , , divided divided 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced onion onion 3 3 large large cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced Sour Sour cream cream sauce sauce : : 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons butter butter 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 1 1 cup cup water water 1 1 cube cube chicken chicken bouillon bouillon 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste oil oil for for frying frying 8 8 ( ( 8 8 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 8 8 ounces ounces shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Place Place the the chicken chicken breasts breasts into into a a large large saucepan saucepan . . Pour Pour in in the the water water , , and and season season with with chili chili powder powder , , 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , cumin cumin , , 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon black black pepper pepper , , garlic garlic powder powder , , onion onion powder powder , , and and cayenne cayenne pepper pepper . . Bring Bring to to a a simmer simmer over over high high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and simmer simmer 15 15 minutes minutes . . After After 15 15 minutes minutes , , stir stir in in 4 4 ounces ounces of of green green chiles chiles , , onion onion , , and and garlic garlic ; ; continue continue simmering simmering until until the the liquid liquid has has reduced reduced to to 1 1 cup cup . . Reserve Reserve remaining remaining 3 3 ounces ounces of of chopped chopped green green chilies chilies . . Remove Remove the the chicken chicken , , shred shred with with two two forks forks , , and and return return to to the the onion onion mixture mixture . . Meanwhile Meanwhile , , melt melt the the butter butter in in a a small small saucepan saucepan over over medium medium heat heat . . Stir Stir in in the the flour flour , , and and cook cook for for 1 1 minute minute . . Whisk Whisk in in the the water water and and bouillon bouillon cube cube until until the the water water has has thickened thickened and and the the bouillon bouillon cube cube has has dissolved dissolved , , about about 4 4 minutes minutes . . Whisk Whisk in in reserved reserved 3 3 ounces ounces of of green green chilies chilies and and the the sour sour cream cream ; ; season season to to taste taste with with salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Keep Keep warm warm . . Heat Heat oil oil in in a a deep-fryer deep-fryer or or large large saucepan saucepan to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place a a tortilla tortilla onto onto your your work work surface surface , , then then spoon spoon about about 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of the the chicken chicken filling filling halfway halfway between between the the bottom bottom edge edge and and the the center center of of the the tortilla tortilla . . Flatten Flatten the the filling filling into into rectangle rectangle shape shape with with the the back back of of a a spoon spoon . . Sprinkle Sprinkle about about 1 1 ounce ounce of of the the Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese over over the the filling filling . . Fold Fold the the bottom bottom of of the the tortilla tortilla snugly snugly over over the the filling filling , , then then fold fold in in the the left left and and right right edges edges . . Roll Roll the the chimichanga chimichanga up up to to the the top top edge edge , , forming forming a a tight tight cylinder cylinder ; ; secure secure the the ends ends with with wooden wooden toothpicks toothpicks . . Repeat Repeat with with the the remaining remaining ingredients ingredients . . Cook Cook the the chimichangas chimichangas , , 2 2 at at a a time time , , in in the the hot hot oil oil until until they they are are crisp crisp and and golden golden brown brown on on both both sides sides , , about about 1 1 minute minute per per side side . . Drain Drain on on a a paper paper towel-lined towel-lined plate plate , , and and remove remove toothpicks toothpicks . . Top Top with with sour sour cream cream sauce sauce to to serve serve . 
1 tablespoon tablespoon cornstarch cornstarch 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon paprika paprika 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon white white sugar sugar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic powder powder 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin | | Stir Stir cornstarch cornstarch , , chili chili powder powder , , salt salt , , paprika paprika , , sugar sugar , , onion onion powder powder , , garlic garlic powder powder , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , and and cumin cumin together together in in a a small small bowl bowl . 
1 jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , seeded seeded and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic 3/4 3/4 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced fresh fresh ginger ginger root root 1/4 1/4 cup cup lime lime juice juice 1/3 1/3 cup cup honey honey 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 cup cup packed packed cilantro cilantro leaves leaves 1/2 1/2 cup cup extra-virgin extra-virgin olive olive oil oil | | Place Place the the jalapeno jalapeno pepper pepper , , garlic garlic clove clove , , and and ginger ginger into into a a food food processor processor or or blender blender ; ; pulse pulse until until the the jalapeno jalapeno and and garlic garlic are are finely finely chopped chopped . . Pour Pour in in the the lime lime juice juice , , honey honey , , balsamic balsamic vinegar vinegar , , and and salt salt , , add add the the cilantro cilantro leaves leaves ; ; pulse pulse a a few few times times to to blend blend . . Turn Turn the the food food processor processor or or blender blender on on , , and and slowly slowly drizzle drizzle in in the the olive olive oil oil until until incorporated incorporated into into the the dressing dressing . . Season Season to to taste taste with with salt salt before before serving serving . 
1 pound pound skinless skinless , , boneless boneless chicken chicken breast breast halves halves 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon vegetable vegetable oil oil 1/2 1/2 cup cup diced diced onion onion 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 quart quart chicken chicken broth broth 1 1 cup cup masa masa harina harina 3 3 cups cups water water , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup enchilada enchilada sauce sauce 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin | | In In a a large large pot pot over over medium medium heat heat , , cook cook chicken chicken breasts breasts in in oil oil until until well well browned browned on on all all sides sides . . Remove Remove and and set set aside aside . . Cook Cook onion onion and and garlic garlic in in remaining remaining oil oil until until onions onions are are translucent translucent . . Pour Pour in in chicken chicken broth broth . . In In a a bowl bowl , , whisk whisk together together masa masa harina harina and and 2 2 cups cups water water until until well well blended blended . . Pour Pour into into pot pot with with remaining remaining 1 1 cup cup water water , , enchilada enchilada sauce sauce , , Cheddar Cheddar , , salt salt , , chili chili powder powder and and cumin cumin . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil . . Shred Shred cooked cooked chicken chicken and and add add it it to to the the pot pot . . Reduce Reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer 30 30 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , until until thickened thickened . 
2 pounds pounds lean lean ground ground beef beef 2 2 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) packages packages taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 4 4 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , minced minced 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon cayenne cayenne pepper pepper 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chili chili powder powder 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water 18 18 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas 1 1 ( ( 24 24 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1 1 cup cup sliced sliced green green onion onion 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) container container sour sour cream cream 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Place Place ground ground beef beef in in a a large large , , deep deep skillet skillet . . Cook Cook over over medium medium high high heat heat until until evenly evenly brown brown . . Drain Drain , , then then season season with with taco taco seasoning seasoning , , garlic garlic , , cayenne cayenne pepper pepper , , chili chili powder powder and and water water . . Simmer Simmer for for 10 10 minutes minutes . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease the the bottom bottom of of a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Place Place 6 6 tortillas tortillas into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Spread Spread 1/3 1/3 of of the the salsa salsa on on top top of of the the tortillas tortillas . . Spread Spread 1/2 1/2 of of the the meat meat mixture mixture evenly evenly over over the the salsa salsa . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with 1/2 1/2 of of the the green green onions onions . . Drop Drop 1/2 1/2 of of the the sour sour cream cream randomly randomly over over the the green green onions onions . . Top Top with with 1/2 1/2 cup cup Cheddar Cheddar and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese . . Repeat Repeat layers layers . . Top Top with with 6 6 tortillas tortillas , , spread spread with with remaining remaining salsa salsa , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with remaining remaining cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 to to 45 45 minutes minutes or or until until cheeses cheeses are are melted melted . 
3 pounds pounds beef beef chuck chuck roast roast 1/4 1/4 cup cup water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups beef beef broth broth 3 3 tablespoons tablespoons red red wine wine vinegar vinegar 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 large large onion onion , , chopped chopped 2 2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans chopped chopped green green chile chile peppers peppers 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 cups cups sour sour cream cream 3 3 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , divided divided 1 1 cup cup oil oil for for frying frying 20 20 ( ( 6 6 inch inch ) ) corn corn tortillas tortillas | | Place Place roast roast in in a a large large saucepan saucepan that that has has a a tight-fitting tight-fitting lid lid . . Pour Pour in in water water , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer on on low low for for 30 30 minutes minutes . . Increase Increase heat heat to to medium/high medium/high , , and and brown brown the the roast roast on on all all sides sides . . Once Once the the water water has has boiled boiled away away , , pour pour in in the the beef beef broth broth , , vinegar vinegar , , chili chili powder powder and and 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon of of cumin cumin . . Cover Cover tightly tightly and and reduce reduce heat heat to to low low . . Simmer Simmer for for 1 1 1/2 1/2 to to 2 2 hours hours or or until until the the beef beef falls falls apart apart when when you you try try to to pick pick it it up up . . Shred Shred the the beef beef , , using using 2 2 forks forks or or your your fingers fingers . . Place Place shredded shredded beef beef back back into into the the saucepan saucepan with with all all the the juices juices , , and and let let cool cool to to room room temperature temperature . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , saute saute the the onion onion until until just just soft soft , , not not browned browned . . Mix Mix in in flour flour and and green green chilies chilies . . Stir Stir constantly constantly for for 2 2 minutes minutes to to cook cook the the flour flour taste taste out out . . Stir Stir in in sour sour cream cream and and 2 2 cups cups of of Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese . . Cook Cook on on low low for for 10 10 minutes minutes , , stirring stirring often often , , until until the the cheese cheese is is all all melted melted and and mixed mixed . . Set Set aside aside and and let let cool cool . . In In a a large large heavy heavy skillet skillet , , heat heat the the olive olive oil oil . . Using Using tongs tongs dip dip the the tortillas tortillas , , one one at at a a time time , , into into the the oil oil for for 30 30 seconds seconds each each side side . . Drain Drain on on paper paper towels towels . . Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spread Spread 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons of of sour sour cream cream mixture mixture down down the the center center of of the the tortilla tortilla . . Top Top with with about about the the same same amount amount of of beef beef . . Roll Roll up up and and place place seam seam side side down down in in one one or or two two 8x11 8x11 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . Repeat Repeat for for each each tortilla tortilla . . Continue Continue until until you you are are out out of of the the filling filling . . Sprinkle Sprinkle with with remaining remaining Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in a a pre-heated pre-heated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes or or until until cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbling bubbling . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 1.25 1.25 ounce ounce ) ) package package taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can chili chili beans beans 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) bottle bottle French French dressing dressing 1 1 head head iceberg iceberg lettuce lettuce 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package tortilla tortilla chips chips 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup chopped chopped tomatoes tomatoes 4 4 tablespoons tablespoons sour sour cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup prepared prepared salsa salsa | | In In a a large large skillet skillet over over medium-high medium-high heat heat , , brown brown the the ground ground beef beef and and drain drain excess excess fat fat . . Stir Stir in in the the taco taco seasoning seasoning , , chili chili beans beans and and French-style French-style dressing dressing . . Fill Fill the the dressing dressing bottle bottle 2/3 2/3 full full of of water water and and add add to to the the skillet skillet . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil , , reduce reduce heat heat and and simmer simmer for for 15 15 minutes minutes . . Crush Crush the the bag bag of of chips chips , , open open the the bag bag , , and and toss toss the the broken broken chips chips into into a a large large bowl bowl with with the the lettuce lettuce , , cheese cheese and and tomatoes tomatoes . . When When the the meat meat mixture mixture is is done done , , combine combine it it with with the the lettuce lettuce , , tomatoes tomatoes , , chips chips and and mix mix well well . . Then Then , , add add salsa salsa and and sour sour cream cream . 
1 pound pound tomatillos tomatillos , , husked husked 1/2 1/2 cup cup finely finely chopped chopped onion onion 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 serrano serrano chile chile peppers peppers , , minced minced 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chopped chopped cilantro cilantro 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon chopped chopped fresh fresh oregano oregano 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground cumin cumin 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 2 2 cups cups water water | | Place Place tomatillos tomatillos , , onion onion , , garlic garlic , , and and chile chile pepper pepper into into a a saucepan saucepan . . Season Season with with cilantro cilantro , , oregano oregano , , cumin cumin , , and and salt salt ; ; pour pour in in water water . . Bring Bring to to a a boil boil over over high high heat heat , , then then reduce reduce heat heat to to medium-low medium-low , , and and simmer simmer until until the the tomatillos tomatillos are are soft soft , , 10 10 to to 15 15 minutes minutes . . Using Using a a blender blender , , carefully carefully puree puree the the tomatillos tomatillos and and water water in in batches batches until until smooth smooth . 
1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can Campbell's® Campbell's® Condensed Condensed Cream Cream of of Chicken Chicken Soup Soup ( ( Regular Regular , , 98 98 % % Fat Fat Free Free or or Healthy Healthy Request® Request® ) ) 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1 1 cup cup Pace® Pace® Picante Picante Sauce Sauce 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons chili chili powder powder 2 2 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken 1/2 1/2 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 6 6 flour flour tortillas tortillas ( ( 6 6 '' '' ) ) , , warmed warmed 1 1 small small tomato tomato , , chopped chopped 1 1 green green onion onion , , sliced sliced | | Stir Stir the the soup soup , , sour sour cream cream , , picante picante sauce sauce and and chili chili powder powder in in a a medium medium bowl bowl . . Stir Stir 1 1 cup cup picante picante sauce sauce mixture mixture , , chicken chicken and and cheese cheese in in a a large large bowl bowl . . Divide Divide the the chicken chicken mixture mixture among among the the tortillas tortillas . . Roll Roll up up the the tortillas tortillas and and place place them them seam seam side side up up in in 11 11 x x 8 8 '' '' shallow shallow baking baking dish dish . . Pour Pour the the remaining remaining picante picante sauce sauce mixture mixture over over the the filled filled tortillas tortillas . . Cover Cover the the baking baking dish dish . . Bake Bake at at 350 350 degrees degrees F F . . for for 40 40 min min . . or or until until the the enchiladas enchiladas are are hot hot and and bubbling bubbling . . Top Top with with the the tomato tomato and and onion onion . 
3 cups cups all-purpose all-purpose flour flour 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons baking baking powder powder 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt 3/4 3/4 cup cup shortening shortening 3/4 3/4 cup cup hot hot water water | | Combine Combine the the flour flour , , baking baking powder powder , , and and salt salt . . Either Either by by hand hand or or with with a a pastry pastry cutter cutter , , cut cut in in the the shortening shortening till till the the mixture mixture is is crumbly crumbly . . If If the the mixture mixture looks looks more more floury floury than than crumbly crumbly , , be be sure sure to to add add just just one one or or two two more more tablespoons tablespoons of of shortening shortening till till it it is is crumbly crumbly . . Add Add about about 3/4 3/4 cup cup hot hot water water to to the the mixture mixture , , or or just just enough enough to to make make the the ingredients ingredients look look moist moist . . With With your your hand hand or or a a large large fork fork , , knead knead the the mixture mixture making making sure sure to to rub rub the the dough dough against against the the sides sides of of the the large large mixing mixing bowl bowl to to gather gather any any clinging clinging dough dough . . If If the the dough dough still still sticks sticks to to the the side side of of the the bowl bowl , , add add a a couple couple more more tablespoons tablespoons of of flour flour until until the the dough dough forms forms a a soft soft round round shape shape . . The The dough dough is is ready ready to to roll roll out out now now , , but but it it is is best best to to let let it it rest rest . . Cover Cover it it with with a a dish dish towel towel , , and and let let it it sit sit for for about about an an hour hour or or so so . . Take Take the the dough dough , , and and pull pull it it apart apart into into 10 10 to to 12 12 balls balls . . Lightly Lightly flour flour your your rolling rolling area area , , and and roll roll each each ball ball with with a a rolling rolling pin pin to to about about 1/8 1/8 inch inch thickness thickness . . Place Place each each tortilla tortilla on on a a medium medium hot hot cast cast iron iron skillet skillet . . Cook Cook for for about about 1 1 to to 2 2 minutes minutes on on each each side side , , or or until until the the tortilla tortilla does does not not look look doughy doughy . 
cooking spray spray 2 2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 2 2 cups cups diced diced poblano poblano peppers peppers 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground dried dried chipotle chipotle pepper pepper 2 2 ( ( 8.5 8.5 ounce ounce ) ) boxes boxes dry dry corn corn muffin muffin mix mix ( ( such such as as Jiffy® Jiffy® ) ) 2 2 eggs eggs 2/3 2/3 cup cup milk milk , , divided divided 4 4 ounces ounces shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese , , divided divided 4 4 ounces ounces shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , divided divided 8 8 ounces ounces frozen frozen corn corn , , thawed thawed | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Spray Spray a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch casserole casserole dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Cook Cook and and stir stir ground ground beef beef in in a a Dutch Dutch oven oven over over medium-high medium-high heat heat until until meat meat starts starts to to brown brown and and release release juices juices , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to medium medium and and stir stir in in poblano poblano peppers peppers , , salt salt , , salsa salsa , , oregano oregano , , and and chipotle chipotle powder powder ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until seasoned seasoned beef beef is is crumbly crumbly and and no no longer longer pink pink , , about about 10 10 minutes minutes . . Mix Mix one one package package of of corn corn muffin muffin mix mix in in a a large large bowl bowl with with 1 1 egg egg and and 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of milk milk . . Whisk Whisk to to combine combine . . In In a a separate separate large large bowl bowl , , mix mix the the second second package package of of corn corn muffin muffin mix mix with with 1 1 egg egg , , 1/3 1/3 cup cup of of milk milk and and half half the the Cheddar Cheddar and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheeses cheeses . . Spread Spread the the prepared prepared corn corn muffin muffin mixture mixture without without cheese cheese into into the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Sprinkle Sprinkle corn corn over over the the muffin muffin mix mix , , followed followed by by remaining remaining half half of of the the cheeses cheeses , , then then the the beef beef mixture mixture . . Spoon Spoon the the corn corn muffin muffin mix mix with with cheese cheese on on top top of of the the beef beef and and carefully carefully spread spread over over the the top top with with a a fork fork , , leaving leaving about about half half an an inch inch from from the the edges edges of of the the pan pan . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 50-60 50-60 minutes minutes , , until until golden golden brown brown . 
1 ( ( 3 3 pound pound ) ) boneless boneless pork pork loin loin roast roast , , cut cut into into 2 2 inch inch pieces pieces 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 2 2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans diced diced green green chile chile peppers peppers 3 3 cloves cloves garlic garlic , , crushed crushed 1/4 1/4 cup cup chipotle chipotle sauce sauce 3 3 1/4 1/4 cups cups water water , , divided divided 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups uncooked uncooked long long grain grain white white rice rice 1/4 1/4 cup cup fresh fresh lime lime juice juice 1/4 1/4 cup cup chopped chopped cilantro cilantro | | Place Place the the roast roast in in a a slow slow cooker cooker , , and and season season with with salt salt . . Place Place chile chile peppers peppers and and garlic garlic on on top top of of roast roast . . Pour Pour in in the the chipotle chipotle sauce sauce and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup water water . . Cover Cover , , and and cook cook 7 7 hours hours on on Low Low . . In In a a pot pot , , bring bring remaining remaining 2 2 3/4 3/4 cups cups water water and and rice rice to to a a boil boil . . Mix Mix in in the the lime lime juice juice and and cilantro cilantro . . Reduce Reduce heat heat to to low low , , cover cover , , and and simmer simmer 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove roast roast from from the the slow slow cooker cooker , , and and use use two two forks forks to to shred shred . . Return Return pork pork to to the the slow slow cooker cooker , , and and allow allow to to sit sit 15 15 minutes minutes to to absorb absorb some some of of the the liquid liquid . . Serve Serve over over the the cooked cooked rice rice . 
1 pound pound ground ground beef beef 1 1 small small onion onion , , diced diced 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 1 1 ounce ounce ) ) packet packet taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) bag bag frozen frozen Mexican-style Mexican-style corn corn 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) can can black black beans beans , , rinsed rinsed and and drained drained 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) bag bag shredded shredded Mexican Mexican cheese cheese blend blend 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen tater tater tots tots 1 1 ( ( 12 12 fluid fluid ounce ounce ) ) can can enchilada enchilada sauce sauce | | Preheat Preheat an an oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Prepare Prepare a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish with with cooking cooking spray spray . . Cook Cook the the ground ground beef beef in in a a skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat until until completely completely browned browned , , 5 5 to to 7 7 minutes minutes . . Add Add the the onion onion , , garlic garlic , , taco taco seasoning seasoning mix mix , , frozen frozen Mexican-style Mexican-style corn corn , , and and black black beans beans to to the the ground ground beef beef ; ; cook cook and and stir stir another another 10 10 minutes minutes . . Set Set aside aside to to cool cool slightly slightly . . Combine Combine the the ground ground beef beef mixture mixture in in a a large large bowl bowl with with about about 3/4 3/4 of of the the Mexican Mexican cheese cheese blend blend and and the the tater tater tots tots ; ; stir stir to to combine combine . . Pour Pour about about 1/3 1/3 of of the the enchilada enchilada sauce sauce into into the the bottom bottom of of the the prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . Add Add the the tater tater tot tot mixture mixture to to the the baking baking dish dish ; ; lightly lightly pat pat the the mixture mixture down down into into a a solid solid , , even even layer layer . . Pour Pour the the remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce over over the the tater tater tot tot layer layer . . Bake Bake in in the the preheated preheated oven oven for for 40 40 minutes minutes . . Sprinkle Sprinkle the the remaining remaining Mexican Mexican cheese cheese over over the the casserole casserole and and return return to to oven oven until until the the cheese cheese is is melted melted and and bubbly bubbly , , about about 5 5 minutes minutes more more . 
1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) jar jar salsa salsa 1 1 ( ( 10 10 ounce ounce ) ) package package frozen frozen chopped chopped spinach spinach , , thawed thawed and and drained drained 2 2 cups cups shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package cream cream cheese cheese , , diced diced and and softened softened 1 1 cup cup evaporated evaporated milk milk 1 1 ( ( 2.25 2.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can chopped chopped black black olives olives , , drained drained 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon red red wine wine vinegar vinegar salt salt and and pepper pepper to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 400 400 degrees degrees F F ( ( 200 200 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium baking baking dish dish , , mix mix together together salsa salsa , , chopped chopped spinach spinach , , Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , cream cream cheese cheese , , evaporated evaporated milk milk , , black black olives olives , , red red wine wine vinegar vinegar , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Bake Bake mixture mixture in in the the preheated preheated oven oven 12 12 to to 15 15 minutes minutes , , or or until until bubbly bubbly . 
1 onion onion , , chopped chopped 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter 1/2 1/2 pound pound fresh fresh crabmeat crabmeat 1/4 1/4 pound pound shrimp shrimp - - peeled peeled , , deveined deveined and and coarsely coarsely chopped chopped 8 8 ounces ounces Colby Colby cheese cheese 6 6 ( ( 10 10 inch inch ) ) flour flour tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup half-and-half half-and-half cream cream 1/2 1/2 cup cup sour sour cream cream 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , melted melted 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons dried dried parsley parsley 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a large large skillet skillet , , saute saute onions onions in in 1 1 tablespoon tablespoon butter butter until until transparent transparent . . Remove Remove the the skillet skillet from from heat heat and and stir stir in in crabmeat crabmeat and and shrimp shrimp . . Shred Shred the the cheese cheese and and mix mix half half of of it it into into the the seafood seafood . . Place Place a a large large spoonful spoonful of of the the mixture mixture into into each each tortilla tortilla . . Roll Roll the the tortillas tortillas up up around around the the mixture mixture and and arrange arrange the the rolled rolled tortillas tortillas in in a a 9x13 9x13 inch inch baking baking dish dish . . In In a a saucepan saucepan over over medium-low medium-low heat heat , , combine combine half-and-half half-and-half , , sour sour cream cream , , 1/4 1/4 cup cup butter butter , , parsley parsley and and garlic garlic salt salt . . Stir Stir until until the the mixture mixture is is lukewarm lukewarm and and blended blended . . Pour Pour sauce sauce over over the the enchiladas enchiladas , , and and sprinkle sprinkle with with remaining remaining cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 pound pound lean lean ground ground beef beef 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can ranch-style ranch-style beans beans 1 1 ( ( 14.5 14.5 ounce ounce ) ) can can peeled peeled and and diced diced tomatoes tomatoes 1 1 ( ( 10.75 10.75 ounce ounce ) ) can can condensed condensed cream cream of of mushroom mushroom soup soup 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn tortillas tortillas 4 4 cups cups shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons chili chili powder powder | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 350 350 degrees degrees F F ( ( 175 175 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Brown Brown the the ground ground beef beef in in a a large large skillet skillet over over medium medium high high heat heat . . Add Add chili chili powder powder , , beans beans , , tomatoes tomatoes and and soup soup ; ; mix mix well well and and heat heat thoroughly thoroughly . . Line Line a a 13x9 13x9 inch inch dish dish with with tortillas tortillas . . Then Then make make a a layer layer with with the the meat meat mixture mixture . . Make Make another another row row of of tortillas tortillas , , then then finish finish off off with with rest rest of of meat meat mixture mixture . . Top Top with with grated grated cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in a a preheated preheated oven oven for for 30 30 minutes minutes . 
1 ( ( 1.5 1.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package dry dry enchilada enchilada sauce sauce mix mix 1 1 ( ( 6 6 ounce ounce ) ) can can tomato tomato paste paste 3/4 3/4 cup cup water water 1 1 1/2 1/2 pounds pounds ground ground beef beef 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon garlic garlic salt salt 1/2 1/2 teaspoon teaspoon onion onion powder powder 1 1 ( ( 16 16 ounce ounce ) ) can can refried refried beans beans 1 1 ( ( 12 12 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn tortillas tortillas 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Cheddar Cheddar cheese cheese 1 1 cup cup shredded shredded Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . In In a a medium medium bowl bowl , , mix mix the the dry dry enchilada enchilada sauce sauce according according to to package package directions directions , , replacing replacing tomato tomato sauce sauce with with the the tomato tomato paste paste and and water water In In a a large large skillet skillet , , brown brown the the ground ground beef beef with with garlic garlic salt salt and and onion onion powder powder ; ; drain drain fat fat . . Mix Mix refried refried beans beans and and 1/2 1/2 cup cup of of the the prepared prepared enchilada enchilada sauce sauce with with the the meat meat . . Dip Dip enough enough corn corn tortillas tortillas to to cover cover the the bottom bottom of of a a 3 3 quart quart casserole casserole dish dish in in the the remaining remaining enchilada enchilada sauce sauce . . Arrange Arrange tortillas tortillas in in the the dish dish . . Spoon Spoon in in half half of of the the meat meat mixture mixture , , covering covering the the tortillas tortillas . . Spread Spread half half of of the the Cheddar Cheddar and and Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheeses cheeses over over the the meat meat . . Cover Cover with with another another layer layer tortillas tortillas dipped dipped in in enchilada enchilada sauce sauce . . Spoon Spoon in in remaining remaining meat meat mixture mixture and and top top with with a a final final layer layer of of tortillas tortillas dipped dipped in in enchilada enchilada sauce sauce . . Pour Pour any any remaining remaining sauce sauce over over the the layers layers and and top top with with remaining remaining cheese cheese . . Cover Cover and and bake bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 20 20 minutes minutes . . Remove Remove from from oven oven and and let let sit sit for for 5 5 minutes minutes before before serving serving . 
4 pounds pounds pork pork shoulder shoulder roast roast 2 2 ( ( 4 4 ounce ounce ) ) cans cans diced diced green green chilies chilies , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 cup cup chili chili powder powder 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon dried dried oregano oregano 1 1 teaspoon teaspoon taco taco seasoning seasoning 2 2 teaspoons teaspoons minced minced garlic garlic 1 1 1/2 1/2 teaspoons teaspoons salt salt , , or or to to taste taste | | Preheat Preheat the the oven oven to to 300 300 degrees degrees F F ( ( 150 150 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Place Place the the roast roast on on top top of of a a large large piece piece of of aluminum aluminum foil foil . . In In a a small small bowl bowl , , stir stir together together the the green green chiles chiles , , chili chili powder powder , , oregano oregano , , taco taco seasoning seasoning and and garlic garlic . . Rub Rub onto onto the the roast roast . . Wrap Wrap foil foil around around the the roast roast so so that that it it is is completely completely covered covered , , using using additional additional aluminum aluminum foil foil if if necessary necessary . . Place Place on on top top of of a a roasting roasting rack rack in in a a baking baking dish dish , , or or place place a a cookie cookie sheet sheet on on an an oven oven rack rack below below to to catch catch any any leaks leaks . . Roast Roast the the meat meat for for 3 3 1/2 1/2 to to 4 4 hours hours in in the the preheated preheated oven oven , , until until falling falling apart apart . . Cook Cook to to at at least least 145 145 degrees degrees F F ( ( 63 63 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Remove Remove from from the the oven oven , , and and shred shred into into small small pieces pieces using using two two forks forks . . Season Season with with salt salt to to taste taste . 
Cornbread Crust Crust : : 1/2 1/2 cup cup butter butter 1 1 onion onion , , finely finely chopped chopped 1 1 clove clove garlic garlic , , minced minced 1 1 ( ( 15.25 15.25 ounce ounce ) ) can can whole whole kernel kernel corn corn , , drained drained 1 1 ( ( 15 15 ounce ounce ) ) can can cream-style cream-style corn corn , , drained drained 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt 1/2 1/2 cup cup egg egg substitute substitute 1 1 ( ( 8.5 8.5 ounce ounce ) ) package package corn corn bread bread mix mix Chicken Chicken Topping Topping : : 2 2 1/3 1/3 cups cups chopped chopped cooked cooked chicken chicken breast breast 2 2 tablespoons tablespoons canned canned green green chile chile peppers peppers , , chopped chopped 4 4 ounces ounces sliced sliced fresh fresh mushrooms mushrooms 1 1 1/2 1/2 cups cups reduced-fat reduced-fat sour sour cream cream 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon salt salt , , or or to to taste taste 1/4 1/4 teaspoon teaspoon ground ground black black pepper pepper , , or or to to taste taste 1 1 ( ( 8 8 ounce ounce ) ) package package Monterey Monterey Jack Jack cheese cheese , , shredded shredded | | Preheat Preheat oven oven to to 375 375 degrees degrees F F ( ( 190 190 degrees degrees C C ) ) . . Grease Grease a a 9x13-inch 9x13-inch baking baking dish dish . . Melt Melt butter butter in in a a small small skillet skillet over over medium medium heat heat . . Add Add onion onion and and garlic garlic ; ; cook cook and and stir stir until until tender tender , , 4 4 to to 6 6 minutes minutes ( ( see see Cook Cook 's 's Note Note ) ) . . Remove Remove from from heat heat and and set set aside aside . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine corn corn , , cream-style cream-style corn corn , , salt salt , , and and egg egg substitute substitute . . Beat Beat in in muffin muffin mix mix . . Fold Fold in in cooked cooked onion onion mixture mixture . . Pour Pour into into prepared prepared baking baking dish dish . . In In a a large large bowl bowl , , combine combine chicken chicken , , green green chiles chiles , , mushrooms mushrooms , , sour sour cream cream , , salt salt and and pepper pepper . . Spoon Spoon over over corn corn mixture mixture to to within within 1 1 inch inch from from edge edge . . Sprinkle Sprinkle top top with with cheese cheese . . Bake Bake in in preheated preheated oven oven for for 35 35 to to 40 40 minutes minutes , , or or until until edges edges are are golden golden brown brown . 
