1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 1/2 pounds lamb or mutton breast chops , chopped into portions 2 tablespoons cake flour 1 large onion , chopped 2 1/4 pounds fresh tomatoes , chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 6 whole white peppercorns 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon brown sugar 1 tablespoon white vinegar 1 dash Worcestershire sauce 1 cube beef bouillon cube 2 medium potatoes , quartered (optional)  | Heat oil over medium-high heat in a large , heavy-bottomed saucepan . Dredge meat in flour , and cook in hot oil until well browned . Stir in onions , and cook until onions are soft , about 5 minutes . Mix in tomatoes . Season with salt , black pepper , white peppercorns , bay leaves , brown sugar , vinegar , Worcestershire sauce , and beef bouillon cube . Cover , reduce heat , and simmer for 1 1/4 hours . Stir occasionally , making sure nothing sticks on the bottom of the pot . Stir in the potatoes and cook for an additional 45 minutes , until the potatoes are done and the meat is tender . 
3/4 cup brown lentils 4 cups water 3/4 cup uncooked long grain rice 1 cup elbow macaroni 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 large onions , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 (15.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste salt and pepper to taste  | Combine the lentils and water in a large saucepan . Bring to a boil , then simmer over medium heat for 25 minutes . Add the rice to the lentils , and continue to simmer for an additional 20 minutes , or until rice is tender . Fill a separate saucepan with lightly salted water and bring to a boil . Add the macaroni and cook until tender , about 8 minutes . Drain . Meanwhile , heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until onion is lightly browned . Pour in the tomatoes and season with red pepper flakes , salt and pepper . Simmer over medium heat for 10 to 20 minutes . In a large serving dish , stir together the lentils , rice and macaroni . Mix in the tomato sauce until evenly coated . 
2 onions , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 6 cups water 1 cup red lentils 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 (19 ounce) can cannellini beans 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1/2 cup diced carrots 1/2 cup chopped celery 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom 1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon olive oil  | In large pot saute ; the onions , garlic , and ginger in a little olive oil for about 5 minutes . Add the water , lentils , chick peas , white kidney beans , diced tomatoes , carrots , celery , garam masala , cardamom , cayenne pepper and cumin . Bring to a boil for a few minutes then simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours or longer , until the lentils are soft . Puree half the soup in a food processor or blender . Return the pureed soup to the pot , stir and enjoy ! 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 (3 pound) roasting chicken , deboned and cut into bite size pieces 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 onion , chopped 1 large potato , diced 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander seed 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup water 3/4 cup unsalted natural-style peanut butter 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed  | In a large skillet with a tight-fitting lid , heat oil over medium high heat . Add chicken , and brown quickly . Remove chicken from pan . Reduce heat to medium low , and add garlic , onion and potato to the pan ; saute for 2 to 3 minutes . Season with cumin , coriander , black pepper , red pepper and salt . Do not let garlic brown . Mix in water and browned chicken , and any accumulated juices . Place lid on skillet and simmer , stirring occasionally , for 10 to 15 minutes . Remove lid , and stir in the peanut butter and garbanzo beans . Make sure the peanut butter is blended in . Replace lid to simmer for 10 more minutes , or until chicken is cooked through and potatoes are tender . Remove from heat , adjust seasoning , and serve . 
1 sweet potato , peeled and cubed 1 medium eggplant , cubed 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 2 carrots , chopped 1 onion , chopped 6 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 3/4 tablespoon sea salt 3/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1/4 cup blanched almonds 1 zucchini , sliced 2 tablespoons raisins 1 cup orange juice 10 ounces spinach  | In a large Dutch oven place sweet potato , eggplant , peppers , carrots , onion , and three tablespoons oil . Saute over medium heat for 5 minutes . In a medium saucepan place 3 tablespoons olive oil , garlic , turmeric , curry powder , cinnamon , salt and pepper and saute over medium heat for 3 minutes . Pour garlic and spice mixture into the Dutch oven with vegetables in it . Add the garbanzo beans , almonds , zucchini , raisins , and orange juice . Simmer 20 minutes , covered . Add spinach to pot and cook for 5 more minutes . Serve ! 
1 onion , sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced (optional) 2 large carrots , peeled and diced 2 large sweet potatoes , peeled and diced 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into 2-inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1 teaspoon salt 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes  | Place the onion , garlic , carrots , sweet potatoes , garbanzo beans , and chicken breast pieces into a slow cooker . In a bowl , mix the cumin , turmeric , cinnamon , black pepper , parsley , and salt , and sprinkle over the chicken and vegetables . Pour in the tomatoes , and stir to combine . Cover the cooker , set to High , and cook until the sweet potatoes are tender and the sauce has thickened , 4 to 5 hours . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 medium onions , chopped 2 large red bell peppers , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes , with liquid 8 cups vegetable broth or stock 1/4 teaspoon pepper 1/4 teaspoon chili powder (optional) 2/3 cup extra crunchy peanut butter 1/2 cup uncooked brown rice  | Heat oil in a large stock pot over medium high heat . Cook onions and bell peppers until lightly browned and tender , stirring in garlic when almost done to prevent burning . Stir in tomatoes , vegetable stock , pepper , and chili powder . Reduce heat to low and simmer , uncovered , for 30 minutes . Stir in rice , cover , and simmer another fifteen minutes or until rice is tender . Stir in peanut butter until well blended , and serve . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 1/2 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 small butternut squash , peeled and chopped 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed 1 carrot , peeled and chopped 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 (14 ounce) can vegetable broth 1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 dash cayenne pepper  | Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook the chicken , onion , and garlic about 15 minutes , until browned . Mix the squash , garbanzo beans , carrot , tomatoes with juice , broth , sugar , and lemon juice into the skillet . Season with salt , coriander , and cayenne pepper . Bring the mixture to a boil , and continue cooking 30 minutes , until vegetables are tender . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , peeled and chopped 1 bay leaf 1 (14.5 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes , drained 2 teaspoons curry powder 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 (2 to 3 pound) whole chicken , bones and skin removed , cut into pieces 1 (14 ounce) can unsweetened coconut milk 1 lemon , juiced  | Heat olive oil in a large , heavy skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , garlic , and bay leaf , and saute until onion is lightly browned . Mix tomatoes , curry powder , and salt into the skillet , and continue cooking about 5 minutes . Mix in the chicken , and cook 15 to 20 minutes , until no longer pink and juices run clear . Reduce skillet heat to low . Stirring constantly , gradually blend in the coconut milk over a period of about 10 minutes . Mix in lemon juice just before serving . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed 2 teaspoons salt 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , chopped 2 carrots , sliced 2 stalks celery , sliced 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon paprika 3/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 1/2 cups chicken broth 1 cup crushed tomatoes 1 cup canned chickpeas , drained 1 zucchini , sliced 1 tablespoon lemon juice  | Season chicken with salt and brown in a large saucepan over medium heat until almost cooked through . Remove chicken from pan and set aside . Saute onion , garlic , carrots and celery in same pan . When tender , stir in ginger , paprika , cumin , oregano , cayenne pepper and turmeric ; stir fry for about 1 minute , then mix in broth and tomatoes . Return chicken to pan , reduce heat to low and simmer for about 10 minutes . Add chickpeas and zucchini to pan and bring to simmering once again ; cover pan and cook for about 15 minutes , or until zucchini is cooked through and tender . Stir in lemon juice and serve . 
3 tablespoons olive oil , divided 2 pounds lamb meat , cut into 1 1/2 inch cubes 2 teaspoons paprika 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 pinch saffron 3/4 teaspoon garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon ground coriander 2 medium onions , cut into 1-inch cubes 5 carrots , peeled , cut into fourths , then sliced lengthwise into thin strips 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon freshly grated ginger 1 lemon , zested 1 (14.5 ounce) can homemade chicken broth or low-sodium canned broth 1 tablespoon sun-dried tomato paste 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon cornstarch (optional) 1 tablespoon water (optional)  | Place diced lamb in a bowl , toss with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil , and set aside . In a large resealable bag , toss together the paprika , turmeric , cumin , cayenne , cinnamon , cloves , cardamom , salt , ginger , saffron , garlic powder , and coriander ; mix well . Add the lamb to the bag , and toss around to coat well . Refrigerate at least 8 hours , preferably overnight . Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large , heavy bottomed pot over medium-high heat . Add 1/3 of the lamb , and brown well . Remove to a plate , and repeat with remaining lamb . Add onions and carrots to the pot and cook for 5 minutes . Stir in the fresh garlic and ginger ; continue cooking for an additional 5 minutes . Return the lamb to the pot and stir in the lemon zest , chicken broth , tomato paste , and honey . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 hours , stirring occasionally , until the meat is tender . If the consistency of the tagine is too thin , you may thicken it with a mixture of cornstarch and water during the last 5 minutes . 
Spice Mixture : 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/8 teaspoon curry powder Stew Vegetables : 1 tablespoon butter 1 sweet onion , chopped 2 cups finely shredded kale 4 (14 ounce) cans organic vegetable broth 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , undrained 3 large potatoes , peeled and diced 2 sweet potatoes , peeled and diced 4 large carrots , chopped 1 cup dried lentils , rinsed 1/2 cup chopped dried apricots 1 tablespoon honey 1 teaspoon ground black pepper , to taste 1 tablespoon cornstarch (optional) 1 tablespoon water (optional)  | Combine cinnamon , cumin , salt , ginger , cloves , nutmeg , turmeric , and curry powder in a large bowl . Melt butter in a large pot over medium heat . Cook the onion in the butter until soft and just beginning to brown , 5 to 10 minutes . Stir in kale and spice mixture ; cook until kale begins to wilt and spices are fragrant , about 2 minutes . Pour the vegetable broth into the pot . Stir garbanzo beans , tomatoes , potatoes , sweet potatoes , carrots , lentils , apricots , and honey , into the broth ; bring to boil , reduce heat to low , and simmer until vegetables and lentils are cooked and tender , about 30 minutes . Season stew with black pepper . Dissolve cornstarch in water ; stir into stew and simmer thickened , about 5 minutes . 
1 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 pound lean ground beef 1/2 cup canned crushed tomatoes , drained 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/8 teaspoon paprika 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough cooking oil spray  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Heat olive oil in skillet over medium-high heat . Cook ground beef until it loses its pink color and begins to brown . Drain fat from skillet . Add tomatoes , cinnamon , cumin , paprika and allspice . Reduce heat to medium and simmer until mixture reduces slightly , about 10 minutes . Remove one phyllo sheet from package and keep the rest covered with a clean cloth until ready to use . On a flat work surface , cut the phyllo sheet into 2 14x9-inch rectangles . Spray the first half-sheet with cooking spray , place the 2nd half on top of it and spray again with oil . Place a generous teaspoon of the meat mixture near the narrow end of the dough . Fold dough over the top of the meat , fold in the sides of the dough , and roll into a narrow tube (cigar) shape . Repeat until all the meat has been rolled up . Arrange cigars on prepared baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven until lightly browned , about 25 minutes . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 large onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 pinch ground cloves 3 medium tomatoes , chopped 1 1/2 pounds sweet potatoes , peeled and chopped 1 carrot , peeled and chopped 4 1/2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup chopped , unsalted dry-roasted peanuts 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons creamy peanut butter 1 bunch chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat . Saute the onion 10 minutes , until lightly browned . Mix in the garlic , ginger , cumin , coriander , cinnamon , and cloves . Stir in the tomatoes , sweet potatoes , and carrot , and continue to cook and stir about 5 minutes . Pour water into the saucepan , and season the mixture with salt . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer 30 minutes . Remove the soup mixture from heat . In a food processor or blender , blend the soup and peanuts until almost smooth . Season with cayenne pepper . Return to the saucepan . Whisk in the peanut butter , and cook until heated through . Serve warm topped with fresh cilantro . 
1 teaspoon vegetable oil 1 small onion , chopped 1 large sweet potato , peeled and diced 1 clove garlic , minced 4 cups chicken broth 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 cup chunky salsa 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 cup diced zucchini 1/2 cup cooked rice 2 tablespoons creamy peanut butter  | Heat the oil in a stockpot over medium heat . Saute onion , sweet potato , and garlic until onion is soft . Turn down heat if necessary to prevent burning . Stir in the chicken broth , thyme and cumin . Bring to a boil , cover and simmer for about 15 minutes . Stir in salsa , garbanzo beans and zucchini . Simmer until tender , about 15 minutes . Stir in the cooked rice and peanut butter until the peanut butter has dissolved . Serve hot with pita chips and a green salad . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 8 skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 eggplant , cut into 1 inch cubes 2 large onions , thinly sliced 4 large carrots , thinly sliced 1/2 cup dried cranberries 1/2 cup chopped dried apricots 2 cups chicken broth 2 tablespoons tomato paste 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons garlic salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 teaspoon cinnamon 3/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup water 1 cup couscous  | Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Place the chicken pieces and eggplant in the heated oil ; stir and cook until the chicken is browned on all sides but not cooked through . Remove the skillet from the heat . Place the browned chicken and eggplant on the bottom of a slow cooker . Layer the onion , carrots , dried cranberries , and apricots over the chicken . Whisk together the chicken broth , tomato paste , lemon juice , flour , garlic salt , cumin , ginger , cinnamon , and ground black pepper in a bowl . Pour the broth mixture into the slow cooker with the chicken and vegetables . Cook on High setting for 5 hours , or on Low setting for 8 hours . Bring water to boil in a saucepan . Stir in couscous , and remove from heat . Cover , and let stand about 5 minutes , until liquid has been absorbed . Fluff with a fork . 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 1 red onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh ginger 1 pound chicken , cut into chunks (optional) 1 tablespoon crushed red pepper , or to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste 5 cups chicken stock 3 small sweet potatoes , cut into chunks 1 (16 ounce) can chopped tomatoes , with liquid 1/4 pound collard greens , roughly chopped 1 cup chunky peanut butter  | Heat the peanut oil in a large pot over medium-high heat ; cook and stir the onion , garlic , and ginger in the hot oil until softened , about 5 minutes . Add the chicken ; cook and stir until completely browned . Season with the crushed red pepper , salt , and black pepper . Pour the chicken stock over the mixture . Stir the sweet potatoes into the liquid and bring the mixture to a boil ; reduce heat to low , cover the pot partially with a lid , and cook at a simmer for 15 minutes . Stir the tomatoes , collard greens , and peanut butter into the soup . Partially cover the pot again and continue cooking , stirring occasionally , another 20 minutes . 
1 cup whole wheat couscous 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 medium onion , chopped 2 bay leaves 5 whole cloves , crushed 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground dried turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - chopped 1 (16 ounce) can garbanzo beans 1 (16 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 (48 fluid ounce) can chicken broth 2 carrots , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 zucchini , cut into 1/2-inch pieces salt to taste  | Prepare the couscous according to package directions . Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat , and cook onion until tender . Mix in bay leaves , cloves , cinnamon , turmeric , and cayenne pepper . Place chicken in the pot , and cook until well browned . Pour garbanzo beans , tomatoes , and broth into the pot , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , and simmer 25 minutes . Mix carrots and zucchini into pot . Season with salt . Continue cooking 10 minutes , or until vegetables are tender . Serve stew over cooked couscous . 
1 pound cubed lamb meat 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons margarine 3/4 cup chopped celery 1 onion , chopped 1 red onion , chopped 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 (29 ounce) can diced tomatoes 7 cups water 3/4 cup green lentils 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 4 ounces vermicelli pasta 2 eggs , beaten 1 lemon , juiced  | Place the lamb , turmeric , black pepper , cinnamon , ginger , cayenne , butter , celery , onion , and cilantro into a large soup pot over a low heat . Stir frequently for 5 minutes . Pour tomatoes (reserve juice) into the mixture and let simmer for 15 minutes . Pour tomato juice , 7 cups water , and the lentils into the pot . Bring the mixture to a boil , then reduce the heat to simmer . Let soup simmer , covered , for 2 hours . About 10 minutes before serving turn the heat to medium-high , place chickpeas and noodles into the soup , let cook about 10 minutes (until noodles are al dente) . Stir in lemon and eggs , let eggs cook 1 minute . 
1/2 cup butter , softened 1 cup white sugar 1 egg 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 pinch salt 4 cups milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 tablespoon butter 2 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 cup white sugar 2 eggs , beaten 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium mixing bowl , cream together 1/2 cup butter or margarine and 1 cup sugar . Add 1 egg and beat until mixture is smooth . In a separate bowl , mix together 2 cups flour , baking powder , and salt . Stir flour mixture into sugar mixture just until ingredients are thoroughly combined . Press mixture into bottom and sides of two 9-inch pie pans . Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes , until golden brown . In a large saucepan , combine milk , vanilla extract , and 1 tablespoon butter or margarine . Bring to a boil over medium heat , then remove from burner . In a separate bowl , mix together 2 1/2 tablespoons flour , cornstarch , and 1/2 cup sugar . Add beaten eggs to sugar mixture and whisk until smooth . Slowly whisk mixture into milk . Return pan to heat and bring to a boil , stirring constantly . Boil and stir 5 minutes . Pour half of mixture into each pastry shell . Sprinkle with cinnamon . Chill before serving . 
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/8 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/4 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 red onion , cut in half and thinly sliced 1 red , green , or yellow bell pepper , cut into 1" pieces 2 zucchinis , halved lengthwise and cut into 3/4 inch pieces 1/2 cup golden raisins 1 teaspoon kosher salt grated zest of one orange 1 (14.5 ounce) can low sodium garbanzo beans , rinsed and drained 1 1/2 cups chicken broth 1/2 cup orange juice 1 1/2 cups couscous 3 tablespoons chopped fresh mint  | Place a large , heavy bottomed pot over medium heat . Stir in the cumin , ginger , cloves , cayenne , cardamom , coriander , and allspice ; gently toast until fragrant , about 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in oil and onion , cook until softened . Stir in the bell pepper , and zucchini ; cook for 5 minutes . Stir in the raisins , salt , zest , and garbanzos . Pour in the chicken broth and orange juice ; turn heat to high and bring to a boil . When the mixture is boiling , stir in the couscous and remove from heat ; cover , and let stand 5 minutes . Fluff with a fork , and fold in chopped mint . 
12 chicken thighs 1 (12 ounce) jar hot chutney 1 (1 ounce) package dry onion soup mix  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , combine chutney and dry soup mix . Mix together . Season chicken pieces with salt and pepper to taste . Place seasoned chicken pieces in a 9x13 inch baking dish and pour chutney mixture over chicken . Bake in the preheated oven for 45 to 60 minutes , or until chutney sauce has turned brown and crunchy . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , finely chopped 2 red bell pepper , seeded and sliced into strips 1 large carrot , thinly sliced 3 tomatoes , chopped 4 olives , chopped 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed 1/4 cup fresh parsley , chopped 3 tablespoons paprika 4 tablespoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons chicken bouillon granules Salt to taste 5 pounds tilapia fillets  | Heat the vegetable oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the bell peppers , carrots , tomatoes , olives , and garbanzo beans and continue to cook until the peppers are slightly tender , about 5 minutes more . Sprinkle the parsley , paprika , cumin , cayenne , and chicken bouillon over the vegetables . Season with salt to taste . Stir to incorporate . Place the fish on top of the vegetables and add enough water to cover the vegetables . Reduce the heat to low , cover , and cook until fish flakes easily with a fork and juices run clear , about 40 minutes . 
1 cup chopped celery 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 cubes beef bouillon 10 cups water 6 whole black peppercorns 2 bay leaves 1/4 cup canola oil 3 pounds beef oxtail , cut into pieces 1 large onion , chopped salt and pepper to taste 1 (12 ounce) can kidney beans , drained 1/4 cup cornstarch dissolved in 1/2 cup water  | Place celery , garlic , tomato paste , bouillon cubes , and water into a large Dutch oven ; stir until the tomato paste has dissolved . Add peppercorns and bay leaves , place over medium heat and bring to a simmer . Meanwhile , heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add oxtail and cook until browned on all sides , about 10 minutes . Remove oxtail from hot oil and place into Dutch oven . Pour out all but 1 tablespoon of oil from the skillet , reduce heat to medium , and cook the onion until softened and translucent , about 5 minutes ; add to oxtail . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer for 2 1/2 hours . Season with salt and pepper , recover , and continue to cook until the oxtail is tender , but not falling off of the bone , about 30 minutes . Remove oxtail pieces and place into a serving dish . Add kidney beans to Dutch oven and return to a simmer . Thicken with cornstarch dissolved in water , simmer for 1 minute until thickened and clear . Pour sauce over the oxtail . 
2 cups vegetable broth 5 tablespoons unsalted butter 1/3 cup chopped dates 1/3 cup chopped dried apricots 1/3 cup golden raisins 2 cups dry couscous 3 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 cup slivered almonds , toasted  | Pour the vegetable broth into a large saucepan , and bring to a boil . Add the butter , apricots , dates and raisins . Boil for 2 to 3 minutes . Remove from the heat , and stir in the couscous . Cover , and let stand for 5 minutes . Stir in the cinnamon and toasted almonds , and serve . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/3 cups chopped onion 1 cup thinly sliced bell peppers , any color 2 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chopped tomatoes 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon salt 1 hot chile pepper , seeded and finely chopped , or to taste 4 eggs  | Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , bell peppers , and garlic ; cook and stir until the vegetables have softened and the onion has turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Combine the tomatoes , cumin , paprika , salt , and chile pepper into a bowl and mix briefly . Pour the tomato mixture into the skillet , and stir to combine . Simmer , uncovered , until the tomato juices have cooked off , about 10 minutes . Make four indentations in the tomato mixture for the eggs . Crack the eggs into the indentations . Cover the skillet and let the eggs cook until they're firm but not dry , about 5 minutes . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 medium onions , very finely diced 2 large bell peppers , (any color) finely chopped 6 large cloves garlic , minced 1 (28 ounce) can chopped tomatoes with juice 8 cups vegetable broth 1/4 teaspoon pepper 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 cup uncooked rice 1 (18 ounce) jar creamy peanut butter chopped roasted peanuts (optional)  | Heat olive oil in a large stock pot over medium-high heat . Cook onion , bell pepper , and garlic until lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Stir in tomatoes with their juice , vegetable broth , pepper , and red pepper flakes . Simmer , uncovered , for 15 minutes . Add rice to soup and stir . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer 25 minutes , or until rice is tender . When rice is cooked , whisk in peanut butter and return to a simmer , and serve . Garnish with chopped roasted peanuts , if desired . 
1 (15 ounce) can fava beans 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 large tomato , diced 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice salt and pepper to taste ground red pepper , to taste  | Pour the beans into a pot and bring to a boil . Mix them well and add onion , tomato , olive oil , cumin , parsley , lemon juice , salt , pepper , and red pepper . Bring the mixture back to a boil , then reduce the heat to medium . Let the mixture cook 5 minutes . Serve warm with grilled pita . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 red onion , chopped 1 zucchini , coarsely chopped 1 yellow squash , coarsely chopped 1 carrot , coarsely chopped 1 red bell pepper , coarsely chopped 1 yellow bell pepper , coarsely chopped 1/2 cup sliced baby portabella mushrooms 4 cups vegetable broth 1/2 teaspoon smoked sweet paprika 1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 (16 ounce) can chickpeas , drained 2 Roma tomatoes , sliced 2 cups dry couscous 1 teaspoon grated orange zest 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese (optional) 1/2 teaspoon paprika (optional) 1 tablespoon finely chopped toasted almonds (optional)  | Heat oil in large pot over medium-low heat . Place onion , zucchini , yellow squash , and carrot in pot and cook , stirring occasionally , until onions begin to soften and turn translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the red and yellow peppers and mushrooms ; cook another 3 minutes . Vegetables should still be firm . Pour in the vegetable stock and season with paprika , cardamom , salt , and cilantro . Bring mixture to a boil ; reduce heat to low . Stir in chickpeas and tomatoes . Slowly pour in the couscous ; stir . Cover pot immediately and remove from the heat . Let stand , covered , for 5 minutes . Fluff couscous with a fork . The couscous should have absorbed about half the cooking liquid . Serve at slightly warmer than room temperature . Garnish with orange zest and the grated cheese , paprika , and almonds . 
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 3/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon mustard powder 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 2 teaspoons white sugar 2 pounds (1-inch thick) boneless , skin-on center-cut salmon fillets 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice  | In a small bowl , combine the cinnamon , cumin , salt , ginger , mustard , nutmeg , cayenne , allspice , and sugar ; set aside . Line a baking sheet with foil , then spray with nonstick cooking spray . Rinse the salmon with cold water and pat dry . Lightly sprinkle the skin with the spice mix , then place the salmon skin-side down on the prepared baking sheet . Sprinkle the remaining spice mix evenly over the salmon . Allow the salmon to come to room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Sprinkle the salmon with lime juice and roast in the oven for 12 minutes . Remove from oven and allow to stand at room temperature for 15 minutes . The salmon will still be rare when removed from the oven , but will continue to cook as it rests . After 15 minutes , wrap the fish tightly with foil and refrigerate for at least 2 hours before serving . 
5 small unripe (green) bananas 1 quart oil for frying , or as needed salt to taste  | Peel the bananas using a knife , as they are not ripe and will not peel like a yellow banana . Slice into long thin wedges or strings to make fries . Heat the oil in a heavy deep skillet over medium-high heat . If you have a deep-fryer , heat the oil to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place the banana fries into the hot oil , and fry until golden brown , 5 to 7 minutes . Remove from the oil , and drain on paper towels . Pat off the excess oil , and season with salt . Serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 large onion , sliced 2 (14.5 ounce) cans stewed tomatoes 1/2 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary 2 cups water 1 (3 pound) whole chicken , cut into 8 pieces 1 cup uncooked white rice 1 cup diced carrots 1/2 pound fresh green beans , trimmed and snapped into 1 to 2 inch pieces 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg  | Pour oil into large saucepan . Cook onion in oil over medium-low heat until translucent . Stir in stewed tomatoes and tomato paste , and season with salt , black pepper , cayenne pepper , red pepper flakes , Worcestershire sauce and rosemary . Cover , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat , stir in water , and add chicken pieces . Simmer for 30 minutes . Stir in rice , carrots , and green beans , and season with nutmeg . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low . Cover , and simmer until the chicken is fork-tender and the rice is cooked , 25 to 30 minutes . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 cloves garlic , crushed 6 cups water 1/3 cup olive oil 3 cups dry green split peas 3 sprigs fresh parsley 1 dried red chile pepper 2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon cumin 1 pinch salt 1 pinch black pepper  | Fry garlic in the vegetable oil in a large pot over low heat until lightly browned . Pour in water and olive oil ; stir in split peas , parsley , chili pepper , paprika , cumin , salt , and pepper . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low , and simmer for about 55 minutes , stirring occasionally so that the peas do not stick to the bottom of the pot . When the peas are tender , mash them with a wooden spoon until smooth ; stir in additional water to reach desired consistency . 
1 pound cubed beef stew meat 2 onions , chopped 2 tablespoons margarine 6 cups beef stock 2 tablespoons curry powder 2 bay leaves 2 potatoes , sliced 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 teaspoons salt  | In a large saucepan or pot , brown the beef cubes and onions in butter or margarine . Add the beef stock , curry and bay leaves . Cook at low heat for 30 minutes . Add the potatoes , vinegar , and salt . Simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour , until all is tender . Serve hot! ! 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/3 cups chopped onion 1 cup thinly sliced bell peppers , any color 2 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chopped tomatoes 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon salt 1 hot chile pepper , seeded and finely chopped , or to taste 4 eggs  | Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , bell peppers , and garlic ; cook and stir until the vegetables have softened and the onion has turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Combine the tomatoes , cumin , paprika , salt , and chile pepper into a bowl and mix briefly . Pour the tomato mixture into the skillet , and stir to combine . Simmer , uncovered , until the tomato juices have cooked off , about 10 minutes . Make four indentations in the tomato mixture for the eggs . Crack the eggs into the indentations . Cover the skillet and let the eggs cook until they're firm but not dry , about 5 minutes . 
1 1/2 cups water 2 pounds carrots , peeled and sliced 5 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 3 cloves cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 1 bay leaf 1 teaspoon lemon juice  | Place a steamer insert into a saucepan , and fill with 1 1/2 cups of water , or just below the bottom of the steamer . Cover , and bring the water to a boil over high heat . Add the sliced carrots , reduce the heat to medium , and cover the pan again . Steam until tender but not mushy , 4 to 6 minutes depending on the thickness of the slices . Reserve 1/2 cup of the cooking liquid . Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Reduce the heat to low and stir in the salt , pepper , cinnamon , cumin , garlic , and thyme . Cook the spices and garlic , stirring frequently , until fragrant , about 10 minutes . Add the 1/2 cup reserved cooking liquid and the bay leaf , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes . Stir in the carrots , tossing well to coat with the spice mixture , and cook until heated through , about 2 to 3 minutes . Sprinkle with lemon juice and remove the bay leaf before serving . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 small onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1 pinch salt 3 potatoes , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , undrained 1 cup tomato sauce 1 cup golden raisins water , or enough to cover 1 (14.5 ounce) can chickpeas , drained and rinsed 1 bunch kale , ribs removed , chopped 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat the olive oil in a large pot over medium heat ; cook the onion and garlic in the hot oil until the onions are translucent , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir the cumin , coriander , cayenne pepper , garam masala , curry powder , and salt into the onion and garlic ; cook together until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add the potatoes , diced tomatoes , tomato sauce , and raisins to the pot . Pour enough water over the mixture to cover ; bring to a simmer and cook until the potatoes are soft , 10 to 15 minutes . Add the chickpeas and kale to the pot ; simmer until the kale wilts , about 3 minutes . Sprinkle the cilantro over the stew and immediately remove the pot from the heat . 
3/4 cup brown lentils 4 cups water 3/4 cup uncooked long grain rice 1 cup elbow macaroni 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 large onions , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 (15.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste salt and pepper to taste  | Combine the lentils and water in a large saucepan . Bring to a boil , then simmer over medium heat for 25 minutes . Add the rice to the lentils , and continue to simmer for an additional 20 minutes , or until rice is tender . Fill a separate saucepan with lightly salted water and bring to a boil . Add the macaroni and cook until tender , about 8 minutes . Drain . Meanwhile , heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until onion is lightly browned . Pour in the tomatoes and season with red pepper flakes , salt and pepper . Simmer over medium heat for 10 to 20 minutes . In a large serving dish , stir together the lentils , rice and macaroni . Mix in the tomato sauce until evenly coated . 
1 cup chopped celery 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 cubes beef bouillon 10 cups water 6 whole black peppercorns 2 bay leaves 1/4 cup canola oil 3 pounds beef oxtail , cut into pieces 1 large onion , chopped salt and pepper to taste 1 (12 ounce) can kidney beans , drained 1/4 cup cornstarch dissolved in 1/2 cup water  | Place celery , garlic , tomato paste , bouillon cubes , and water into a large Dutch oven ; stir until the tomato paste has dissolved . Add peppercorns and bay leaves , place over medium heat and bring to a simmer . Meanwhile , heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add oxtail and cook until browned on all sides , about 10 minutes . Remove oxtail from hot oil and place into Dutch oven . Pour out all but 1 tablespoon of oil from the skillet , reduce heat to medium , and cook the onion until softened and translucent , about 5 minutes ; add to oxtail . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer for 2 1/2 hours . Season with salt and pepper , recover , and continue to cook until the oxtail is tender , but not falling off of the bone , about 30 minutes . Remove oxtail pieces and place into a serving dish . Add kidney beans to Dutch oven and return to a simmer . Thicken with cornstarch dissolved in water , simmer for 1 minute until thickened and clear . Pour sauce over the oxtail . 
1 pound parsnips , peeled and diced 1 pound turnips , peeled and diced 2 medium onions , chopped 1 pound carrots , peeled and diced 6 dried apricots , chopped 4 pitted prunes , chopped 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1 tablespoon dried cilantro 1 (14 ounce) can vegetable broth  | In a slow cooker , toss together the parsnips , turnips , onions , carrots , apricots , and prunes . Season with turmeric , cumin , ginger , cinnamon , cayenne pepper , parsley , and cilantro . Pour in the vegetable broth . Cover , and cook 9 hours on Low . 
1/4 cup paprika 2 tablespoons hot chili powder 1 cup fresh lemon juice 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 1/2 teaspoons chopped fresh ginger 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 4 bone-in chicken breast halves  | In a large bowl , stir together the paprika , chili powder , lemon juice , garlic , ginger and salt . Rub chicken with the mixture , place in a dish , and marinate for 3 hours . Preheat a grill for medium heat . Place chicken onto the grill and discard the marinade . Cook for about 30 minutes , turning occasionally , until the skin is slightly charred and juices run clear . 
6 cloves garlic salt to taste 2 teaspoons paprika 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 3/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 3/4 cup chopped parsley 1 lemon , juiced 3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 pounds red potatoes , sliced 1/2 inch thick 1 large red bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces 1 yellow bell pepper , cut into 1 1/2 inch squares 1 large green bell pepper , cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces 4 stalks celery , cut into 2 inch pieces 1 pound tomatoes , each cut into 8 wedges 2 tablespoons olive oil  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine garlic , 1/2 teaspoon salt , paprika , cumin , and cayenne in a food processor bowl . Process until mixture forms a paste . Add herbs , and pulse a few times to blend . Add lemon juice , vinegar , and 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil ; blend . Season to taste with salt . In a large bowl , combine potatoes , peppers , and celery . Season with salt , and toss with herb sauce . Transfer to a large shallow baking dish . Scatter tomatoes among the potato mixture . Drizzle 1 to 2 tablespoons oil over top , and cover with foil . Bake for 35 minutes . Remove foil . Continue baking until vegetables are tender , 20 to 30 minutes . Serve warm . 
1 (14.5 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , drained and rinsed 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 (16 ounce) package ditalini pasta 1 1/2 cups short-grain rice , rinsed cold water , to cover 1 1/2 cups dark brown lentils water , to cover 1 pinch salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 yellow onion , minced 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 (14 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter 3 cups chicken stock 1 (3 ounce) can French-fried onions  | Combine the chickpeas , vinegar , coriander , cayenne pepper , and cumin in a resealable bag or container with a tight-fitting lid . Store in refrigerator while prepping remainder of dish , shaking occasionally . Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil . Cook the ditalani pasta in the boiling water until cooked through yet firm to the bite , about 8 minutes ; drain and set aside . Combine the rice with enough cold water to cover ; allow to soak for 20 minutes . Drain . Meanwhile , combine the lentils with enough water to cover in a pot ; season with salt and pepper . Bring the lentils to a boil and cook at a boil until tender , about 30 minutes . Drain . Heat the olive oil in a saucepan over medium-high heat ; cook and stir the onion and garlic in the hot oil until translucent , 5 to 7 minutes . Add the crushed tomatoes , season with salt and pepper , reduce heat to medium-low , and maintain at a simmer while preparing remainder of dish . Melt the butter in a pot over medium-high heat . Add the rice to the butter , increase heat to high , and fry for 4 to 5 minutes , stirring constantly . Pour the chicken stock over the rice ; bring to a boil . Season the rice mixture with salt and pepper , reduce heat to low , cover the pot , and cook until rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , about 20 minutes . Mix the rice and lentils together on a large serving platter . Spread the cooked ditalani over the rice and lentil mixture . Serve with the marinated chickpeas , the tomato sauce , and the French-fried onions as condiments . 
1 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 pound lean ground beef 1/2 cup canned crushed tomatoes , drained 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/8 teaspoon paprika 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough cooking oil spray  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Heat olive oil in skillet over medium-high heat . Cook ground beef until it loses its pink color and begins to brown . Drain fat from skillet . Add tomatoes , cinnamon , cumin , paprika and allspice . Reduce heat to medium and simmer until mixture reduces slightly , about 10 minutes . Remove one phyllo sheet from package and keep the rest covered with a clean cloth until ready to use . On a flat work surface , cut the phyllo sheet into 2 14x9-inch rectangles . Spray the first half-sheet with cooking spray , place the 2nd half on top of it and spray again with oil . Place a generous teaspoon of the meat mixture near the narrow end of the dough . Fold dough over the top of the meat , fold in the sides of the dough , and roll into a narrow tube (cigar) shape . Repeat until all the meat has been rolled up . Arrange cigars on prepared baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven until lightly browned , about 25 minutes . 
1 cup long grain white rice 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground turmeric 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 cup black raisins 1 tablespoon butter 2 1/2 cups water  | In a saucepan , combine the rice , salt , turmeric , sugar , cinnamon , raisins , butter and water . Bring to a boil uncovered . When it comes to a boil , reduce the heat to low , cover and let it simmer for 20 to 30 minutes , or until rice is fluffy and water has been absorbed . Remove from the heat and fluff with a fork . Keep warm until serving time . 
1 (14 ounce) package spring roll wrappers 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 pounds ground beef 1 leek , chopped 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground cardamom 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 small onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon water , or as needed 1 quart oil for frying  | Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onions , leek and garlic , and cook , stirring until the onions are transparent . Add ground beef , and cook until about halfway done . Season with cumin , cardamom , salt and pepper . Mix well , and continue cooking until beef has browned . In a small dish or cup , mix together the flour and water to make a thin paste . Using one wrapper at a time , fold into the shape of a cone . Fill the cone with the meat mixture , close the top , and seal with the paste . Repeat until wraps or filling are used up . Heat the oil to 365 degrees F ( 170 degrees C) in a deep-fryer or deep heavy pot . There should be enough oil to submerge the wraps . Fry the Sambusa a few at a time until golden brown . Remove carefully to drain on paper towels . 
4 eggs , beaten 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 3 tablespoons crumbled feta cheese 1 teaspoon milk 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | In a small bowl , beat eggs and pepper together . In another small bowl , combine crumbled cheese with milk . Heat oil in a large non-stick skillet over medium-high heat . Pour in eggs , and tilt pan until bottom is evenly covered . When edges appear cooked , place feta mixture in a line in the center of eggs . Using a spatula , fold eggs over top and bottom of cheese , then fold sides over . 
2/3 cup hazelnuts 1/2 cup sesame seeds 2 tablespoons coriander seeds 2 tablespoons cumin seeds 2 tablespoons freshly ground black pepper 1 teaspoon flaked sea salt  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place the hazelnuts on a baking sheet , and bake for about 5 minutes , or until fragrant . While the nuts are still hot , pour them onto a tea towel . Fold the towel over them to cover , and rub vigorously to remove the skins . Set aside to cool . In a dry skillet over medium heat , toast the sesame seeds until light golden brown . Pour into a medium bowl as soon as they are done so they will not continue toasting . In the same skillet , toast the coriander and cumin seeds while shaking the pan or stirring occasionally until they begin to pop . Transfer to a food processor . Process until finely ground , then pour into the bowl with the sesame seeds . Place the cooled hazelnuts into the food processor , and process until finely ground . Stir into the bowl with the spices . Season with salt and pepper , and mix well . 
16 chicken wings , split and tips discarded 1 onion , chopped 2/3 cup soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 1/8 teaspoon ground ginger  | Place chicken wings and onion in a soup pot , and fill with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook for 20 minutes . Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . While the wings are cooking , combine the soy sauce , cinnamon , cloves and ginger in a saucepan , and warm over medium heat . When chicken is done , drain water (may be reserved for other uses as a broth) , and pour in the soy sauce mixture . Stir to coat all of the wings , then place them in a single layer on a cookie sheet . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the outsides are crispy . Baste with sauce as desired while cooking . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 pounds boneless chicken , cut into 1/2 inch cubes 1 large onion , chopped 5 medium potatoes , peeled and cubed 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 teaspoon coarse ground black pepper 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1 cup water 1 cup chicken broth 3/4 cup peanut butter 2 cups chopped fresh spinach  | Heat the oil in a large , heavy skillet over medium-heat heat ; cook the chicken in the skillet until completely brown , 5 to 7 minutes ; remove and set aside . Add the onion , potatoes , garlic , pepper , salt , coriander , cumin , and red pepper to the skillet and cook until the onions soften , about 5 minutes . Stir in the water , chicken broth , and peanut butter . Return the chicken to the skillet and top with the spinach . Cover and simmer until the potatoes are cooked through , about 20 minutes . 
1 pound collard greens - rinsed , trimmed and chopped 2 cups water 1 tablespoon olive oil 3/4 cup chopped onions 8 cloves garlic , chopped 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 1/2 cups sliced green bell pepper 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root  | Place chopped collard greens in a pot with 2 cups of water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low . Cover , and simmer until collards are tender , about 20 minutes . Drain , but reserve the cooking water . Set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a pot over medium heat . Stir in onions and cook until just beginning to brown , about 10 minutes . Stir in garlic and cook for 1 minute . Add the cooked collards , 1 tablespoon olive oil , and the reserved cooking water . Simmer , uncovered , over medium-high heat until liquid is nearly evaporated , 10 to 15 minutes . Add the green pepper slices , lemon juice , salt , turmeric , paprika , allspice , and ginger root . Cook until peppers are soft , about 5 minutes . 
6 cups water 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans 3 tablespoons olive oil 2 onions , chopped 2 potatoes , peeled and cubed 3 tablespoons chicken bouillon powder 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional) 2 teaspoons curry powder 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1/2 cup whole milk 1/2 cup half-and-half 1/2 cup dry potato flakes 1/4 cup chopped green onions  | In a medium-size cooking pot , add water and white kidney beans and bring to boil . Reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes . In a frying pan , saute onions in olive oil until lightly brown . To cooking pot , add potatoes , sauteed onions , chicken soup base , turmeric , black pepper , white pepper , cayenne pepper , curry powder , and soy sauce , and cook until potatoes are tender . Add whole milk and half and half cream and bring back to boil . Add instant potato flakes , stirring until well blended . Adjust seasonings to taste . Garnish with chopped chives or green onions . 
1 (10 ounce) package baby spinach , rinsed 1 cup fresh shiitake mushrooms , stemmed and quartered 1 medium onion , coarsely chopped 1 tablespoon olive oil garlic powder to taste  | Heat the olive oil in a wok , or large frying pan over medium-high heat . Add the mushrooms and onion , and saute until they are about halfway done . Dump in the spinach , and liberally sprinkle with garlic powder . Fry until the spinach has wilted , about 5 to 7 minutes . 
Pudding : 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon white vinegar 1/2 cup milk 1 cup superfine sugar 2 eggs 1 tablespoon apricot jelly 1 1/3 cups cake flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 pinch salt Sauce : 1 cup heavy cream 1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 cup water , orange juice , or sherry  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a small saucepan over low heat , melt 2 tablespoons butter or margarine together with vinegar and milk . Remove from heat , and set aside . Meanwhile , sift flour , baking soda , and salt together into a separate bowl . Beat 1 cup sugar and eggs with an electric mixer on high speed until fluffy and light colored , about 5 minutes . Gradually mix in the apricot jam . Fold the dry ingredients into the egg mixture alternately with warmed milk mixture using a spatula . Pour batter into a greased , 1 quart oven-proof baking dish . Bake approximately 45 minutes , or until a knife inserted into the center comes out clean . Place cream , butter , 1/2 cup sugar , and water in a saucepan and stir over moderate heat until the butter has melted and sugar is dissolved . Do not allow the mixture to boil . Remove pudding from the oven , pierce several times with a skewer or fork , and pour the hot cream mixture immediately over the pudding . Serve hot or cold . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds small chicken thighs 12 ounces Merguez or spicy Italian sausage 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 onions , minced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into 1/2-inch rounds 1/2 stalk celery , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 rutabaga , parsnip , or turnip - peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes 1/2 green bell pepper , cut into 1/4 inch strips 1/2 red bell pepper , cut into 1/4 inch strips 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans 2 cups chicken stock 2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon harissa , or to taste 1 bay leaf 2 zucchini , halved lengthwise and sliced into 1-inch pieces 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 cups couscous 2 cups chicken stock 1/2 cup plain yogurt  | Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add chicken thighs , skin-side down , and sear until golden brown on both sides ; set aside . Reduce heat to medium , add sausage , and cook sausage until no longer pink ; set aside . Stir garlic and onions into skillet ; cook until onions have softened and turned translucent . Stir in the carrots , celery , rutabaga , green pepper , red pepper , diced tomatoes , garbanzos , and 2 cups chicken stock . Season with thyme , turmeric , cayenne , harissa , and bay leaf . Cut sausage into 1--inch pieces , and add to skillet along with chicken . Cover , and simmer for 30 minutes until chicken is no longer pink . When the chicken is done , stir in the zucchini , and cook until tender , about 5 minutes . While the chicken is cooking , mix 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) into couscous in a heatproof bowl . Bring 2 cups of chicken stock to a boil and stir into the couscous , cover , and keep hot . Serve chicken stew over the couscous with a dollop of yogurt . 
4 cups chicken broth 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup crunchy peanut butter  | In 1-quart saucepan add broth and chili peppers and bring mixture to a boil . Stir in bell pepper and onion and return to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and let simmer until vegetables are tender , about 10 minutes . Reduce heat to lowest possible temperature ; add peanut butter and cook , stirring constantly , until peanut butter is melted and mixture is well blended . 
1 (10 ounce) package baby spinach , rinsed 1 cup fresh shiitake mushrooms , stemmed and quartered 1 medium onion , coarsely chopped 1 tablespoon olive oil garlic powder to taste  | Heat the olive oil in a wok , or large frying pan over medium-high heat . Add the mushrooms and onion , and saute until they are about halfway done . Dump in the spinach , and liberally sprinkle with garlic powder . Fry until the spinach has wilted , about 5 to 7 minutes . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion , diced 4 cups vegetable stock , divided 1/2 cup peanut butter 2 cups canned diced tomatoes , with juices 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes , or more to taste 1 cup finely chopped cabbage 1 cup chopped sweet potato 1 cup peeled and chopped carrot 1 cup peeled and chopped turnip 1 cup chopped okra 1 cup chopped cooked chicken , or to taste  | Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a large soup pot ; cook and stir the onion in the hot oil until translucent , about 5 minutes . Whisk 1/2 cup of vegetable stock and the peanut butter into the onions until the mixture is smooth . Beat in remaining vegetable stock , diced tomatoes with their liquid , and crushed red pepper flakes ; bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium low , and cook at a simmer for 30 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cabbage , sweet potato , carrot , and turnip ; simmer , stirring occasionally , until the vegetables are tender , about 30 more minutes . Stir in the okra and chicken and simmer until the okra is tender , about 30 additional minutes . 
1 3/4 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch pieces 2 large onions , thinly sliced 1/2 cup coarsely chopped dried apricots 1/3 cup raisins 1 1/4 cups low-sodium chicken broth 2 tablespoons tomato paste 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon curry powder (optional) 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional) 1 cup couscous 1 cup boiling water  | Place the chicken , onions , apricots , and raisins into a slow cooker . In a bowl , whisk together the chicken broth , tomato paste , lemon juice , flour , ginger , cumin , cinnamon , black pepper , curry powder , and cayenne . Pour the mixture over the chicken in the cooker . Cover , set the cooker to High , and cook 2 1/2 hours ; or set the cooker to Low and cook for 5 hours . Place the couscous into a saucepan , stir in the boiling water , cover , and let stand until the water is absorbed and the couscous is tender , about 5 minutes . Fluff the pasta with a fork . Scoop onto plates , and serve with chicken tagine . 
3/4 cup pumpkin seeds 1 1/2 pounds cubed beef stew meat 1/2 cup peanut oil 2 large tomatoes , chopped 1 small onion , chopped 2 habanero peppers , seeded and minced 18 ounces tomato sauce 3 tablespoons tomato paste 1 1/2 cups water 2 pounds fresh shrimp , peeled and deveined 1 pound fresh spinach , washed and chopped  | Place pumpkin seeds in a blender and blend for 30 to 40 seconds or until mixture is a powdery paste . Set aside . Wash beef and cut into bite-size cubes . Season with salt . In large pot , heat oil over medium-high heat for 4 to 5 minutes . Add beef and saute for 3 to 5 minutes or until brown but not cooked through . Place tomatoes , onions , and pepper in a blender and blend for about 30 seconds or until smooth . Add tomato mixture to meat , reduce heat to medium-low , and cover . Cook for 40 to 50 minutes or until meat is tender . Add tomato sauce , water , and shrimp and simmer for 10 minutes . Add spinach and ground pumpkin seeds and continue to simmer 10 minutes more . 
1 (14 ounce) package spring roll wrappers 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 pounds ground beef 1 leek , chopped 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground cardamom 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 small onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon water , or as needed 1 quart oil for frying  | Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onions , leek and garlic , and cook , stirring until the onions are transparent . Add ground beef , and cook until about halfway done . Season with cumin , cardamom , salt and pepper . Mix well , and continue cooking until beef has browned . In a small dish or cup , mix together the flour and water to make a thin paste . Using one wrapper at a time , fold into the shape of a cone . Fill the cone with the meat mixture , close the top , and seal with the paste . Repeat until wraps or filling are used up . Heat the oil to 365 degrees F ( 170 degrees C) in a deep-fryer or deep heavy pot . There should be enough oil to submerge the wraps . Fry the Sambusa a few at a time until golden brown . Remove carefully to drain on paper towels . 
2 pounds ground lamb 1 cup raisins 5 ounces goat cheese 1/3 cup mayonnaise 1 red onion , finely chopped 2 cloves garlic , finely chopped 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 3/4 tablespoon ground cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander salt to taste coarsely ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat and lightly oil grate . In a medium bowl , mix together ground lamb , raisins , goat cheese , mayonnaise , red onion , garlic , cilantro , cayenne pepper , cumin , ground coriander , salt and black pepper . Divide the mixture into approximately 6 even portions , and press around skewers . Place skewers on the grill . Cook approximately 4 minutes per side , or until the cheese has melted , the raisins are tender and lamb has reached desired doneness . 
3 tablespoons butter , melted 1 cup white sugar 3 egg yolks 1 cup cake flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 cups milk 3 egg white 1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Coat a 9 inch deep dish pie plate with vegetable oil cooking spray . In a large bowl , mix together the butter and sugar until smooth . Add the egg yolks and beat until light and fluffy . Sift in the cake flour , baking powder and salt , and stir until well blended . Mix in the vanilla and milk . In a separate bowl , whip the egg whites to stiff peaks using an electric mixer . Fold into the batter . Pour into the prepared pie plate , and sprinkle cinnamon sugar over the top . Bake for 25 minutes in the preheated oven , then reduce the temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Continue to bake for 25 to 30 minutes , or until the center is set when you gently jiggle the pie . Serve hot or cold . 
4 cups water salt 1 1/4 cups dry lentils 2 large cloves garlic , minced 2 large roma (plum) tomatoes , seeded and chopped 1/2 cup chopped red onion 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 small green chile pepper , seeded and chopped 1 lemon , juiced 1 teaspoon lemon zest 1 small carrot , shredded 1/2 cup oil-cured black olives 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 2 hard-cooked eggs , cut in half lengthwise  | Bring the water and salt to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Pour the lentils into the water while stirring constantly . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until the lentils are tender but still hold their shape , about 30 minutes . Drain well . Transfer the lentils to a mixing bowl and stir in the garlic , seeded tomatoes , red onion , green bell pepper , and chile pepper . Add the juice of 1 lemon plus 1 teaspoon of the zest . Mix in the shredded carrot , olives , and cilantro . Season with salt and black pepper , and drizzle with olive oil ; mix well . Refrigerate for at least an hour to allow the flavors to blend . Before serving , mix the salad again and add more lemon juice or olive oil if needed . Transfer to a serving dish and garnish with sliced eggs . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 medium onions , minced 1 1/2 pounds ground beef 1 cup milk 2 slices Texas toast thick-sliced bread 1/2 cup raisins 1 teaspoon apricot jam 1 tablespoon hot chutney 1/2 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 large egg 1 pinch salt 1 bay leaf  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13-inch baking dish . Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook the onions in the hot oil until soft . Break the ground beef into the skillet and cook until brown . Place the milk in a shallow dish . Soak the bread in the milk . Squeeze the excess milk from the bread . Set the milk aside . Add the bread to the beef mixture . Stir in the raisins , apricot jam , chutney , curry powder , salt , and black pepper . Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish . Bake in the preheated oven 1 hour . While the bobotie bakes , whisk together the reserved milk , egg , and a pinch of salt . Pour over top of the dish . Lay the bay leaf onto the top of the milk mixture . Return the bobotie to the oven until the top is golden brown , 25 to 30 minutes . Remove bay leaf before serving . 
1 large eggplant 1 1/2 tablespoons tahini sauce 4 cloves garlic , smashed 1/2 lemon , juiced 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional) salt to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil , or to taste 1 pinch dried parsley flakes , for garnish  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Arrange oven racks so you have one low and one high in the oven . Cut a shallow slit along the side of the eggplant and place into a baking dish . Roast in preheated oven on the lower rack until the eggplant is completely shrunken and soft , about 40 minutes . Move dish to higher rack and continue baking until the skin is charred , about 5 minutes more . Let eggplant cool until cool enough to handle . Peel and discard skin from eggplant . Put eggplant into a bowl ; add tahini , garlic , lemon juice , red pepper flakes , and salt . Stir until ingredients are evenly mixed . Drizzle olive oil over the baba ghanoush and garnish with parsley . 
1 cup white rice 2 cups water 3 tablespoons peanut oil 1 pound tofu , cubed 1/2 white onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 3/4 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1/2 cup peanut butter  | Bring rice and water to a boil in a pot . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer 20 minutes , or until rice is tender and water has been absorbed . Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook the tofu in the oil until browned , about 10 minutes . Add the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion is translucent , 3 to 5 minutes . Mix in the tomato paste and peanut butter ; cook and stir until peanut butter has melted completely , about 5 minutes . Serve over cooked rice . 
4 cups chicken broth 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup crunchy peanut butter  | In 1-quart saucepan add broth and chili peppers and bring mixture to a boil . Stir in bell pepper and onion and return to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and let simmer until vegetables are tender , about 10 minutes . Reduce heat to lowest possible temperature ; add peanut butter and cook , stirring constantly , until peanut butter is melted and mixture is well blended . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 large onions , peeled and sliced into rings 2 pounds lamb meat , cut into 1 1/2 inch cubes 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander seed 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon salt to taste 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 pears - peeled , cored and cut into 1 1/2 inch chunks 1/2 cup golden raisins 1/2 cup blanched slivered almonds  | Heat the oil in a large pot or Dutch oven over medium heat . Fry the onion in the oil until soft . Add the lamb meat to the pan , and fry until just browned on the outside . Season with cumin , coriander , ginger , cinnamon , salt and pepper . Pour just enough water into the pot to cover the meat . Cover , and simmer over low heat for 1 1/2 to 2 hours , until meat is tender and the mixture is stew-like . Displace lid a little after an hour if there appears to be too much liquid . Add the pears , golden raisins and almonds to the stew , and cook for another 5 minutes or so , until the pears are soft . Serve with rice . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 boneless , skinless chicken breast , cubed 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 5 cloves garlic , pressed 1/8 cup water 1/2 cup butter 5 saffron threads 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1 1/2 cups cream 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste splash of milk  | Warm olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Place the chicken pieces in hot oil ; cook , turning , until browned on both sides . Stir in cayenne , white pepper , and garlic . Pour in water , and cook until the chicken is done and the water has evaporated , about 30 minutes . Stir in butter and saffron threads ; cook for 10 minutes . Add cream cheese , stirring until melted and smooth . Gradually whisk in cream , smoothing out any lumps . Stir in Parmesan , and cook until the sauce reaches the consistency you like . If it becomes too thick , stir in a small amount of milk . 
2 onions , thickly sliced 3 cups water , or as needed 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 slice white bread 1 cup milk 2 pounds lean ground beef 1 tablespoon curry powder 2 eggs 1 tablespoon white sugar 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon turmeric (optional) 2 tablespoons vinegar 3 tablespoons chutney 6 almonds 1/2 cup raisins 4 bay leaves  | Heat water in a saucepan over high heat . Bring to a boil and add the onion slices . Reduce heat and simmer until the onions appear translucent , 3 to five minutes . Remove the onions and finely chop them . Heat the vegetable oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has browned slightly . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 7x11-inch baking dish . Soak the slice of bread in the milk and gently squeeze out the milk ; set the milk aside . Crumb the bread into a large mixing bowl . Mix bread together with ground beef , curry powder , 1 egg , sugar , salt , black pepper , turmeric , vinegar , chutney , almonds and raisins . Place the mixture the prepared baking dish . Insert the bay leaves into the meat . Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour . Beat the remaining egg with 3 tablespoons of the drained milk . Pour over the meat and bake for another 30 minutes . 
3 cups water 1 cup red lentils 1 roma tomato , quartered 1 carrot , quartered 1 small onion , quartered 4 cloves garlic , quartered 1/4 cube chicken bouillon (such as Maggi) 1 cup water 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon sea salt 1/2 teaspoon cracked black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground coriander  | Place 3 cups water , lentils , tomato , carrot , onion , garlic , and chicken bouillon in a stockpot over medium heat ; cook until vegetables and lentils are softened , 20 to 25 minutes . Remove from heat and cool to lukewarm . Blend vegetable and lentil mixture with an immersion blender until smooth . Stir 1 cup water , cumin , sea salt , pepper , and coriander into soup ; heat over medium heat until warmed . 
1 1/4 cups vegetable broth 1 1/4 cups water 2 cups pearl (Israeli) couscous 1 pinch salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 5 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1/2 cup pine nuts 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 shallot , minced 1/2 cup sliced black olives 1/3 cup sun-dried tomatoes packed in oil , drained and chopped 1 cup vegetable broth 1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley  | Bring 1 1/4 cup vegetable broth and water to a boil in a saucepan , stir in couscous , and mix in salt and black pepper . Reduce heat to low and simmer until liquid is absorbed , about 8 minutes . Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a skillet over medium-high heat ; stir in pine nuts and cook , stirring frequently , until pine nuts smell toasted and are golden brown , about 1 minute . Remove from heat . Heat remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil in a saucepan ; cook and stir garlic and shallot in the hot oil until softened , about 2 minutes . Stir black olives and sun-dried tomatoes into garlic mixture and cook until heated through , 2 to 3 minutes , stirring often . Slowly pour in 1 cup vegetable broth and bring mixture to a boil . Reduce heat to low and simmer until sauce has reduced , 8 to 10 minutes . Transfer couscous to a large serving bowl , mix with sauce , and serve topped with parsley and pine nuts . 
1 pound lean ground beef 4 cloves garlic , minced , divided 1/4 cup finely chopped onion , divided salt and pepper to taste 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1/2 teaspoon ras el hanout (optional) 1/2 cup water  | Combine the ground beef with half of the minced garlic and a tablespoon of chopped onion . Mix with your hands until fully incorporated . Shape the meat mixture into 1 1/2-inch oblong patties ; you should have 12 to 14 meatballs . Heat a skillet over medium-high heat . Brown the patties in batches until they are crispy on both sides and are no longer pink in the center , about 10 minutes . Set the meatballs aside in a rimmed serving dish and repeat with the remaining patties . Reduce the heat to medium and stir in the remaining chopped onion . Add salt and pepper . Cook the onions in the drippings , stirring constantly , until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the remaining half of the garlic and cook for 30 seconds . Stir in the roma tomatoes , dried parsley , ras el hanout , and water . Cook until the tomatoes are soft , about 5 minutes . Pour the tomato sauce over the meatballs and serve . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 3 carrots , chopped 2 sweet potatoes , chopped 1 eggplant , chopped 4 plum tomatoes , chopped 3 zucchini , chopped 1/2 cup raisins 3 (16 ounce) cans chicken broth 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 tablespoon honey 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 (15.5 ounce) can garbanzo beans , rinsed and drained 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper  | Heat oil in the bottom of a large , heavy pot over medium-high heat . Cook and stir the onion , green bell pepper , and garlic in the oil until tender , about 5 minutes . Place the carrots , sweet potatoes , eggplant , plum tomatoes , zucchini , and raisins in the pot with the onion mixture . Stir in the chicken broth , lemon juice , honey , and season with cumin , coriander , turmeric , and cinnamon . Bring the stew to a boil over high heat , cover , and reduce the heat to medium-low , and simmer until the vegetables are tender , about 30 minutes . Pour the garbanzo beans into the stew and season with salt and pepper . Stir to combine and cook the soup for an additional 10 to 15 minutes . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cloves 1 teaspoon fenugreek seeds 1 head garlic , minced 1 teaspoon salt 3 large onions , chopped 4 large carrots , cubed 4 large potatoes , cubed 1/4 head cabbage , chopped 2 cups tomato puree 2 cups water salt and pepper to taste  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in the ginger , turmeric , black pepper , cloves , fenugreek , garlic , and one teaspoon salt . Continue to stir until the spices and garlic are well coated in oil , about 30 seconds . Stir in the onions ; cook , stirring , until translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the carrots , potatoes , and cabbage ; cook , stirring frequently , until the vegetables begin to soften , about 3 minutes . Stir in the tomato puree and the water . Continue to cook over very low heat , until vegetables are soft and the tomato sauce thickens , about 30 to 40 minutes . Taste for seasoning and add additional salt and pepper , if needed . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 pounds beef round roast , cubed 2 onions , diced 1/2 cup water 2 pounds fresh green beans , trimmed and halved 1 1/2 teaspoons allspice 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 (16 ounce) can canned tomatoes , chopped 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce  | Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat ; brown the beef in the hot oil for 10 minutes . Stir in the onions and 1/2 cup water ; cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Mix the green beans , allspice , pepper , and salt into the mixture ; cover and simmer another 15 minutes . Add the tomatoes and tomato sauce ; cover with water ; cover and simmer another 45 minutes . 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander seed 1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves  | Mix salt , cumin , ginger , turmeric , cinnamon , black pepper , white pepper , coriander , cayenne pepper , allspice , nutmeg , and cloves in a small bowl until evenly blended . Store in an airtight container up to 1 month . 
1/4 cup paprika 2 tablespoons hot chili powder 1 cup fresh lemon juice 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 1/2 teaspoons chopped fresh ginger 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 4 bone-in chicken breast halves  | In a large bowl , stir together the paprika , chili powder , lemon juice , garlic , ginger and salt . Rub chicken with the mixture , place in a dish , and marinate for 3 hours . Preheat a grill for medium heat . Place chicken onto the grill and discard the marinade . Cook for about 30 minutes , turning occasionally , until the skin is slightly charred and juices run clear . 
1/4 cup margarine or butter 1/4 cup honey 1 teaspoon rose water 1 teaspoon salt ground black pepper to taste 4 pounds bone-in chicken pieces , with skin 1 pound fresh peaches , pitted and sliced 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 cup toasted slivered almonds (optional)  | Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . In a glass measuring cup , combine the margarine , honey , rose water , salt and pepper . Heat in the microwave until margarine has melted , about 30 seconds . Place chicken in a baking dish and pour the margarine mixture over it . Stir to coat the chicken completely . Place the dish of chicken into the oven . Cook uncovered in the preheated oven until chicken pieces have browned , about 15 minutes . Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Add the peaches to the dish and sprinkle with sugar . Continue to roast until chicken is cooked through , about 20 more minutes . Remove chicken pieces to a serving dish and pour the juices from the pan over them . Garnish with slivered almonds . 
2 cups peanut butter 1/2 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 (10 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 4 cups chicken broth 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1 onion , chopped 1/2 cup fresh mushrooms , sliced cayenne pepper to taste  | Melt peanut butter in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in tomato paste , and blend with peanut butter until smooth . Mix in diced tomatoes with green chile peppers and chicken broth . Cook 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Heat oil in a medium skillet over medium heat . Saute chicken and onions until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear . Mix chicken , onions , and mushrooms into the peanut butter mixture , and continue cooking , stirring occasionally , about 15 minutes . Season with cayenne pepper . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon honey 5 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3 cups finely ground millet flour 1/4 teaspoon baking soda  | Dissolve yeast and honey in 1/4 cup of the water . Allow to proof and add the remainder of the water and the millet flour . Stir until smooth and then cover . Allow to stand at room temperature for 24 hours . Stir the batter well and mix in the baking soda . Heat a large non-stick skillet over medium heat . Pour about 1/3 cup of the batter into the pan in a spiral pattern to cover the bottom of the pan evenly . Tilt the pan to quickly even out the batter . Cover the pan and allow to cook for about 1 minute . The bread should not brown but rather rise slightly and very easy to remove . It is cooked only on one side . This top should be slightly moist . Remove to a platter and cool . Stack the cooked breads on a plate . 
1 medium sugar pumpkin , seeded and cubed 2 cups white sugar 1 cup coconut milk 1 teaspoon ground cardamom  | Steam the pumpkin pieces for 5 to 10 minutes . Scoop flesh from skins . In a medium saucepan , combine the pumpkin flesh and sugar . Heat over medium-low temperature until sugar dissolves into the pumpkin . Add coconut and cardamom . Stir often . Cook until the mixture has thickened to thick pudding-like consistency . 
1 pound carrots , peeled and sliced into thin rounds 2 cups water 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 teaspoon sweet paprika 1 pinch cayenne pepper , or to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon wine vinegar 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup cilantro leaves  | Combine carrots , water , garlic , olive oil , paprika , cayenne pepper , salt , and black pepper in a shallow pan ; bring to a boil over medium-high heat and cook until carrots are tender and water evaporates , about 20 minutes . Stir vinegar and cumin through the carrot mixture . Remove the pan from heat and set aside to allow salad to cool to room temperature . Garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1 red bell pepper , cut into thin strips 3 tomatoes , sliced 6 (6 ounce) tilapia fillets 2 tablespoons paprika 1 tablespoon chicken bouillon granules 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup olive oil 1 cup water 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley  | Preheat an oven to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) . Layer the sliced red peppers and sliced tomatoes in the bottom of a baking dish . Arrange the tilapia fillets on top of the vegetables . Combine the paprika , chicken bouillon , cayenne , salt , pepper , olive oil , and water and mix well . Pour the seasoning mixture over the fish . Sprinkle with parsley . Cover the baking dish with aluminum foil and bake in the preheated oven until the fish flakes easily with a fork and the vegetables are tender , about 1 hour . 
6 ounces bird's eye chiles , seeded and stems removed 12 cloves garlic , peeled 1 tablespoon coriander , ground 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon dried mint 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 cup olive oil  | Place the chiles , garlic , ground coriander , cumin , salt mint and cilantro into a blender or food processor . If the mixture is too dry , add a bit of the olive oil . Store in a bowl or jar in the refrigerator with the remaining oil poured in a layer over the top . Make sure that the surface is covered with a layer of oil each time you use some . When you run out of Harissa you can use the oil to add flavor to fried or baked dishes . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 tablespoons chicken bouillon granules 2 cups hot water 3 eggs 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons white sugar 1 (17.5 ounce) package frozen puff pastry , thawed salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup butter , melted  | Preheat oven to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . Place chicken breasts in a small saucepan and cover with bouillon and water . Poach over medium-low heat , just below the boiling point . Cook 8 to 10 minutes , until no longer pink in center . Dice chicken . Reserve bouillon . In a small bowl , whisk eggs with 1/2 cup reserved bouillon and chopped parsley . In a separate bowl , mix together cinnamon and sugar . Roll out one sheet of pastry into a 12 inch square . Cut other sheet of pastry in half and roll out into two 8 inch squares . Fit 12 inch square of pastry into a 9 inch pie pan . Spread half of diced chicken evenly across bottom of pastry . Pour half of egg mixture over chicken . Sprinkle with half of cinnamon and sugar mixture , then with salt and pepper . Cover with one 8 inch square of pastry . Cover pastry square with remaining chicken , egg mixture , and cinnamon and sugar . Sprinkle with more salt and pepper . Cover with remaining pastry square . Fold edges of bottom pastry over top of pie . Brush with melted butter or margarine . Bake in preheated oven for 40 minutes , until golden brown . Serve lukewarm or cold . 
7/8 cup water 2 1/4 cups bread flour 3/4 cup semolina flour 1 teaspoon anise seed 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 2 teaspoons active dry yeast 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon sesame seeds (optional)  | Place the first set of ingredients in the pan of the bread machine in the order recommended by the manufacturer . Select DOUGH cycle ; press Start . Do not put the olive oil or sesame seeds in . When the dough cylce signals its end , remove the dough from the machine , and punch down . Divide the dough into two halves , and shape into balls . Flatten the balls to a 3/4 inch thickness . Place them on a lightly floured baking sheet . Cover with towels , and let rise until double in size , about 30 minutes . Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Brush the top of each loaf with olive oil , and sprinkle with sesame seeds if you like . Prick the tops of the loaves all over using a fork . Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the loaves are golden , and sound hollow when tapped . Serve warm or cool . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup sherry 1/2 cup honey 1/2 teaspoon ground thyme 2 teaspoons curry powder 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 clove garlic , pressed 3 pounds cut up chicken pieces 1 1/2 cups uncooked brown rice 3 cups water 2 tablespoons olive oil 8 pitted prunes 8 dried apricot halves  | Whisk together the soy sauce , lemon juice , sherry , honey , thyme , curry powder . dried oregano , ground ginger , ground black pepper , and garlic . Place the marinade with the chicken into a resealable bag , and marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to 24 hours . Bring the brown rice and water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce the heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 45 to 50 minutes . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat , and cook the chicken pieces until browned on all sides . Sprinkle the chicken with prunes and apricots ; pour the marinade into the skillet . Bring to a simmer , cover , and cook for 30 minutes . Uncover and simmer until the sauce is slightly thickened , the chicken is no longer pink at the bone , and the juices run clear , about 15 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Serve over the brown rice . 
1/2 cup olive oil 4 carrots , thinly sliced 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon sea salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 head cabbage , shredded 5 potatoes , peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes  | Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook the carrots and onion in the hot oil about 5 minutes . Stir in the salt , pepper , cumin , turmeric , and cabbage and cook another 15 to 20 minutes . Add the potatoes ; cover . Reduce heat to medium-low and cook until potatoes are soft , 20 to 30 minutes . 
1/2 cup whipping cream 1/2 cup Amarula liqueur 2 cups semisweet chocolate chips 1 dash vanilla extract  | Pour the whipping cream and Amarula liqueur into a fondue pot ; cook and stir over medium-low heat until the mixture boils . Continue to stir while adding the chocolate chips . Reduce heat to low , and stir until the chocolate melts and blends completely with the cream mixture . Stir in the vanilla . Take care not to overheat the mixture . To serve , reduce heat to lowest setting . 
1 (17.5 ounce) package frozen puff pastry sheets , thawed 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup chopped pecans 1 cup chopped hazelnuts 1 cup raisins 1 cup flaked coconut 1 1/4 cups white sugar , divided 4 cups milk 1/2 cup heavy cream  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter a 9x13-inch baking dish . Place the pastry sheets in the baking dish and place the dish in the oven . Watch it closely . When the top layer turns crunchy and golden , remove it from the oven . Continue until all the sheets are cooked . Preheat the oven's broiler . In a bowl , combine walnuts , pecans , hazelnuts , raisins , coconut and 1/4 cup sugar . Break cooked pastry into pieces and stir into nut mixture . Spread mixture evenly in 9x13-inch dish . Bring milk and 1/2 cup sugar to a boil in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Pour over nut mixture . Beat the heavy cream with the remaining 1/2 cup sugar until stiff peaks form . Spread evenly over nut mixture in dish . Place dessert under oven broiler until top is golden brown , about 10 minutes . Serve hot . 
1 (17.25 ounce) package frozen puff pastry , thawed 5 cups milk 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/4 cup raisins 1/4 cup slivered almonds 1/4 cup pine nuts 1/4 cup chopped pistachio nuts 1/4 cup sweetened , flaked coconut  | Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Unroll the puff pastry sheets , and place flat on a baking sheet . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until puffed and golden brown . Break the puff pastry into pieces , and place in a large bowl . Add the raisins , almonds , pine nuts , pistachios , and coconut , and toss to distribute . Pour into a 9x13 inch glass baking dish , and spread evenly . Pour the milk into a saucepan , and stir in the sugar and vanilla . Heat until hot but not quite boiling . Pour over the mixture in the baking dish . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven . Turn the oven to broil , and broil for 2 minutes to brown the top . Remove from the oven and let stand for 5 minutes . Serve warm . 
2 green bell peppers 3 tablespoons olive oil 4 fresh tomatoes , peeled and chopped 2 teaspoons sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder ground black pepper to taste 1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced green olives  | Preheat the oven broiler . Place the green bell peppers on a baking sheet , and broil , turning occasionally , 5 minutes , or until tender and scorched on all sides . Remove from heat , peel , and chop . Heat the olive oil in a skillet , and mix in the peppers and tomatoes . Stir in sugar . Season with paprika , parsley , cumin , salt , garlic powder , and pepper . Continue cooking until tomatoes are heated through . Serve topped with olives . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 cups uncooked white rice 3 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 1 (16 ounce) package uncooked elbow macaroni 1 cup beluga lentils , soaked in water 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 5 onions , minced 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 4 ripe tomatoes , diced 1/2 cup tomato paste 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper  | Heat 1 tablespoon vegetable oil in a saucepan over medium-high heat . Stir in rice ; continue stirring until rice is coated with oil , about 3 minutes . Add 3 cups water and 1 teaspoon of salt . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rolling boil over high heat . Stir in the macaroni , and return to a boil . Cook the macaroni uncovered , stirring occasionally , until the it has cooked through , but is still firm to the bite , about 8 minutes . Drain well in a colander . Return macaroni to cooking pot , cover and keep warm . Soak lentils for 30 minutes . Drain and rinse ; drain again . Bring 2 cups water to a boil in a pot and stir in lentils . Bring to a boil ; cover and reduce heat to low . Simmer until lentils are tender 15 or 20 minutes . Stir in 1/2 teaspoon salt . Heat 1 tablespoon vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook the onions in the oil , stirring often , until they begin to brown , 10 to 15 minutes . Onions should be a nice caramelized brown color . Add garlic and cook another minute . Remove from pan , drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Place half of the onion mixture into a saucepan . Mix in the vinegar . Add the chopped tomatoes and tomato paste , black pepper , 2 1/2 teaspoons salt , cumin , and cayenne (if using) . Bring to a boil then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer about 12 minutes . Serve by placing a spoonful of rice , then macaroni , and then the lentils on serving plates . Sprinkle with some of the browned onions , then top with tomato sauce . 
2 tablespoons butter 1 onion , finely chopped 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth 1 (2 pound) butternut squash - peeled , seeded , and cut into 1-inch cubes 1 orange , juiced 1 orange , juiced and zested 3 tablespoons sour cream salt and pepper to taste  | Melt butter in a large saucepan or soup pot over medium heat , and cook and stir the onion until translucent , about 5 minutes . Pour in the chicken broth , and stir in the butternut squash cubes , orange juice , and orange zest . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer until the squash cubes are tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Pour the soup into a blender , filling the pitcher no more than halfway full . Hold down the lid of the blender with a folded kitchen towel , and carefully start the blender , using a few quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree . Puree in batches until smooth and pour back into the pot . Alternately , you can use a stick blender and puree the soup right in the cooking pot . Whisk in sour cream until smooth , and season to taste with salt and pepper . Heat over medium-low heat until almost simmering , and serve hot . 
1/3 cup olive oil 4 carrots , sliced 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 small head cabbage , sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 small yellow potatoes , cut into bite-size cubes 1/4 cup water  | Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium heat . Saute carrots in hot oil until slightly softened , about 5 minutes . Add onion ; saute until onion is fragrant , about 2 minutes . Season carrot mixture with turmeric , cumin , pepper , and ground ginger ; stir and let the seasonings toast until fragrant , about 1 minutes . Stir cabbage and garlic into the carrot mixture ; cook , stirring occasionally , until the cabbage wilts , about 10 minutes . Stir potatoes into the cabbage mixture . Pour water into the pot and stir . Bring the liquid to a boil , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook at a simmer , stirring every 10 minutes , until the potatoes are tender , about 30 minutes . 
6 cups beef stock 1 cup dry lentils 1 tablespoon olive oil , or to taste 1 onion , chopped 1 cinnamon stick 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can red kidney beans , rinsed and drained 1 (14 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 cup cooked quinoa (optional) 1 bunch flat-leaf parsley leaves and thinner stems , chopped 1 bunch cilantro leaves and thinner stems , chopped 1 lemon , or to taste , juiced  | Stir beef stock and lentils together in a large pot ; bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , and keep at a simmer while preparing onion . Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir onion , cinnamon stick , ginger , turmeric , cumin , and black pepper in the hot oil until the onion is translucent , about 5 minutes ; add to stock mixture . Pour garbanzo beans , kidney beans , tomatoes , and quinoa into the stock mixture ; stir and bring mixture to a boil . Stir parsley and cilantro into the stock mixture ; reduce heat to low and cook mixture at a simmer until the lentils are tender , about 45 minutes . Drizzle lemon juice over the soup before serving . 
2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 head cauliflower , cut into florets 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 egg 2 cloves garlic 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon tomato paste salt to taste 1/4 cup milk , or as needed 2 cups vegetable oil , or as needed  | Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rolling boil ; add 2 teaspoons cumin to boiling water . Cook cauliflower florets , working in batches , in the boiling water until cooked but still crisp , 1 to 2 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and cool on a plate . Blend flour , egg , garlic , 1 teaspoon cumin , tomato paste , and salt in a blender or food processor until smooth ; thin with milk as needed . Heat oil in a deep skillet to about 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Dip cauliflower florets in the batter ; fry battered cauliflower in the hot oil , working in batches , until cauliflower is golden and crispy , 6 to 8 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on a paper towel-lined plate . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 yellow onion , diced small 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 stalks celery , diced small 1 large carrot , diced 1 quart reduced-sodium butternut squash soup 1 cup low-sodium chicken broth 2 tablespoons ras el hanout , or to taste 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt , or more to taste 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper , or more to taste 1 cup frozen peas , rinsed and drained 1/3 cup raisins  | Heat olive oil in a deep pot over medium heat . Cook chicken breasts in hot oil until browned on both sides , but still slightly underdone in the center , 3 to 5 minutes per side ; remove to a cutting board to cool . Stir onion into the oil in the pot ; saute until lightly browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Add garlic and cook until fragrant , about 1 minute more . Stir celery and carrot into the onion mixture ; saute together until until the celery and carrot begin to soften , 2 to 3 minutes . Reduce heat to low , place a cover on the pot , and sweat the vegetable mixture until softened completely , about 10 minutes . Pour butternut squash soup and chicken broth into the pot ; stir and bring to a simmer . Season the soup mixture with ras el hanout , cinnamon , salt , and pepper ; stir . Replace cover to the pot and cook mixture at a simmer for 40 minutes . Cut the partially cooked chicken breasts into chunks ; add to the soup mixture along with any juices that have collected on the cutting board . Stir peas and raisins into the soup mixture ; simmer until the chicken pieces are no longer pink in the center , about 15 minutes more . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 onions , chopped 1 pound cubed beef stew meat 6 cups beef stock 2 tablespoons curry powder 2 bay leaves 2 potatoes , sliced 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 teaspoons salt  | Melt the butter in a large saucepan . Cook onions and beef cubes until beef is browned and onions are tender . Add the beef stock , curry and bay leaves . Cook over low heat for 30 minutes . Add the potatoes , vinegar and salt . Simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour until all is tender . Remove bay leaves , and serve hot . 
7 cups water 2 onions , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 teaspoons garam masala 1 pinch salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 cups cooking oil 2 cups lamb meat , cut into small pieces 1 large eggplant , cut into 3/4-inch slices 2 zucchini , cut into 1/4-inch slices 1 cup broccoli 1 cup cauliflower 1 1/2 cups jasmine rice 1 (16 ounce) container plain yogurt  | Bring to a boil the water , onion , garlic , cinnamon , turmeric , garam masala , salt , and pepper in a large pot . Add the lamb ; reduce the heat to low and simmer 15 to 20 minutes . Separate the lamb from the liquid and set aside . Transfer the liquid to a bowl . While the lamb mixture simmers , heat the oil in a large , deep skillet over medium heat . Fry the eggplant slices in the hot oil , assuring the pieces do not touch , until brown on both sides ; remove to a plate lined with paper towels to drain . Use the same procedure to fry the zucchini and the cauliflower . Cook the broccoli in the oil until hot and remove to a paper towel-lined plate to drain . Layer the lamb into the bottom of the large pot . Arrange the eggplants , zucchini , broccoli , and cauliflower on top of the beef in layers . Pour the rice over the beef and vegetables , shaking the pot gently to allow the rice to settle into the dish . Pour the reserved liquid from the beef over the mixture until it is completely covered . Add water if needed . Cover the pot and simmer over low heat until the rice is soft and the liquid is absorbed , 30 to 45 minutes . Remove the lid from the pot . Place a large platter over the pot and flip the pot so the dish is 'upside down' on the platter . Serve with yogurt on the side . 
1 pound cubed beef stew meat 2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon canola oil 4 onions , very thinly sliced 2 cubes chicken bouillon 1 bay leaf salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 1/2 cups water , or as needed  | Combine beef , butter , and canola in a large saucepan ; cook and stir beef over medium heat until lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Add onions , chicken bouillon , bay leaf , salt , and pepper to beef ; pour in water . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until beef is tender and onions have reduced into a thick sauce , at least 2 hours . 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon chipotle chili powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (4 pound) skinless , boneless turkey breast half 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 acorn squash , seeded and cut into quarters 3 large carrots , peeled and cut into 3 pieces 2 red onions , quartered 6 unpeeled garlic cloves  | Mix flour , chipotle chili powder , garlic powder , cinnamon , coriander , salt , and black pepper in a large resealable plastic bag and shake to combine . Place the turkey breast into the bag , seal , and shake to coat turkey with the spice mix . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat and sear the seasoned turkey breast in the hot oil until browned on both sides , about 5 minutes per side (meat will still be pink inside) . Place acorn squash quarters , carrots , red onions , and garlic cloves into the bottom of a large slow cooker . Place the browned turkey breast on top of the vegetables . Cover cooker . Cook turkey breast until meat and vegetables are very tender , 3 1/2 to 4 hours on High or 7 to 8 hours on Low . Transfer turkey breast to a platter and allow to rest for about 10 minutes before slicing . Peel squash and garlic cloves . Arrange the cooked vegetables around the turkey meat and spoon the juices from the slow cooker over the turkey and vegetables to serve . 
1 1/2 cups dried black-eyed peas (cowpeas) 1 onion , chopped 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup olive oil 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 3 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons sweet paprika 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 3 1/2 cups water , or more if needed  | Place black-eyed peas into a large container and cover with several inches of cool water ; let stand for 8 hours to overnight . Drain and rinse peas . Combine peas , onion , tomato sauce , olive oil , cilantro , garlic , salt , cumin , paprika , ginger , and cayenne pepper in a stockpot ; pour 3 1/2 cups water over pea mixture . Bring water to a boil , decrease heat to low , cover pot , and simmer , stirring occasionally and adding more water if sauce gets too thick , until peas are tender , about 1 1/2 hours . 
1 tablespoon butter 1 small onion , finely chopped 2 (5 ounce) cans tuna packed in oil , drained 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon capers , or to taste 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese salt and pepper to taste 10 sheets phyllo dough 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 1 lemon , cut into wedges  | Melt the butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , and cook until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Transfer the onion to a mixing bowl , and stir in the tuna , parsley , capers , and Parmesan cheese ; season to taste with salt and pepper . Cut the phyllo sheets in half lengthwise , ending up with long , narrow sheets . Lay out one strip of phyllo at a time on your work surface with one of the narrow ends close to you . Place a heaping tablespoon of filling 1 inch from the end closest to you . Fold the bottom right corner over the filling to the left edge to form a triangle . Fold the triangle up , bringing the point at the bottom left up to rest along the left edge . Turn the lower left corner over to touch the right edge . Continue turning the triangle over in this manner until you reach the end of the phyllo . Lightly brush the last inch of phyllo with water to seal . Repeat with the remaining filling and phyllo dough . Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Fry the brik in the preheated oil in batches until golden brown and crispy , about 3 minutes . Drain the brik on a paper towel-lined plate . Serve with lemon wedges . 
4 cloves garlic , diced 1 tablespoon caraway seeds 1 pinch salt 3 tablespoons olive oil 2/3 cup mild chile peppers , chopped 1 1/2 cups green bell peppers , seeded and chopped 2 cups tomatoes , seeded and chopped 4 eggs salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Mash the garlic , caraway seeds , and pinch of salt in a mortar and pestle or against the side of a mixing bowl . Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the chile peppers ; cook and stir until the peppers have softened , about 5 minutes . Remove them from the skillet and set aside . Add another tablespoon of oil to the skillet and cook the bell peppers and tomatoes until the peppers are soft and the tomatoes have begun to break down , about 5 more minutes . Add the tomato-bell pepper mixture to the hot peppers . Stir in the mashed garlic and caraway seeds . Spoon the vegetables onto plates or a serving platter . Heat the remaining oil in the skillet . Fry the eggs until the whites are set and the yolks are the desired consistency , about 2 to 3 minutes for runny yolks , 4 to 5 minutes for fully set yolks . Place the fried eggs on the vegetable mixture and season to taste with salt and pepper . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 1/2 pounds cubed lamb stew meat 1 1/2 teaspoons saffron salt and pepper to taste 1 large onion , chopped 1 cup water 1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon butter 1 lemon , cut into wedges  | Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add the lamb , and cook until browned on all sides , about 5 minutes . Season with saffron , salt and pepper to taste ; stir in all but 1/4 cup of the onion , and pour in the water . Bring to a boil , then cover , reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer until the lamb is tender , about 15 minutes . Uncover the skillet , stir in the butter , and allow the sauce reduce 5 to 10 minutes to desired consistency . Season to taste with salt and pepper , then pour into a serving dish . Sprinkle with the remaining chopped onions and parsley . Garnish with lemon wedges to serve . 
1/4 cup lemon juice 2 tablespoons olive oil 3 tablespoons tahini paste 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves 1/2 teaspoon asafoetida powder 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley salt and pepper to taste 1 1/2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 cups couscous 1/2 cup diced tomato 1/4 cup diced red bell pepper 1/4 cup diced green bell pepper 1/4 cup canned green beans , diced 1/2 cup cooked chickpeas 1/2 cup diced Persian cucumbers 1/4 cup green olives , pitted and quartered 1/4 cup roasted peanuts  | Make a dressing by whisking together the lemon juice , 2 tablespoons olive oil , tahini paste , mint , asafoetida powder , and parsley ; season with salt and pepper . Set aside . Combine the water with 1 teaspoon salt and 2 tablespoons olive oil in a saucepan ; bring to a boil over medium heat . Remove from heat and stir the couscous into the water ; cover for 10 minutes . Place the couscous in a large bowl . Mix the diced tomato , red bell pepper , green bell pepper , green beans , chickpeas , cucumber , olives , and peanuts into the couscous . While stirring , slowly pour the dressing into the mixture . Serve immediately . 
1 (16 ounce) package cottage cheese 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves 2 tablespoons butter 1/4 cup finely chopped onion 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 green chile pepper , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 pounds spinach leaves , cut into 2-inch pieces  | Mix cottage cheese , 1 clove of garlic , cardamom , and cloves thoroughly in a bowl . Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve . Heat the butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , ginger , green chile pepper , and 2 cloves of garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the spinach and cook until just wilted . Drain any excess liquid , and serve the spinach mixture over the seasoned cottage cheese . 
8 cups water 4 cups gari (roasted cassava flour)  | Bring the water to a boil in a large pot . Sprinkle in the gari , and cook , stirring constantly , until it becomes a paste similar to mashed potato consistency . 
1 cup plain yogurt 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 3 slices whole wheat bread 3 eggs , beaten 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 1/2 cups dried bread crumbs 1 cup French-fried onions 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon coarsely crushed coriander seed 4 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 2 pounds ground beef 3 cups vegetable oil for frying  | In a mixing bowl , mix together yogurt , salt , small jalapeno pepper , and 3 tablespoons chopped parsley . Set dipping sauce aside . Soak bread slices in water for 3 minutes . Remove from water , and squeeze out excess moisture . Crumble into a large bowl . Mix in eggs and Worcestershire sauce . Mix in dried bread crumbs , fried onions , garlic , ginger , ground cumin , crushed coriander seed , 4 tablespoons parsley , and large jalapeno pepper . Add ground beef , and work in with your hands until well mixed . Roll mixture into balls the size of walnuts . Heat 3 cups of oil in a large , deep , heavy bottomed frying pan until piping hot , about 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Cook meatballs a few at a time in hot oil until brown and crispy , about 3 to 4 minutes . To check for doneness , cut one in half to see if cooked through ; it should be cooked in the center . Remove from oil using a slotted spoon , and place on a plate lined with paper towels to drain . Insert a toothpick into each meatball for serving and dipping . Serve hot or cold with dipping sauce . 
1/4 cup olive oil 4 large carrots , chopped 1 large white onion , finely chopped 2 teaspoons kosher salt 2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon dried tarragon 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1 (16 ounce) package dry lentils 1 cup crushed tomatoes 2 quarts vegetable broth 1 (10 ounce) package spinach 1 large zucchini , cut into small pieces 1 pinch salt to taste 1 teaspoon olive oil , or to taste  | Heat 1/4 cup olive oil in a large pot over medium heat . Cook and stir carrots , onion , salt , parsley , black pepper , ginger , tarragon , and cumin in the hot oil until the onion is translucent , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir lentils and tomatoes into the carrot mixture . Pour vegetable broth over the vegetables , stir , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , place a cover on the pot , and simmer until the lentils are tender , 45 to 50 minutes . Stir spinach and zucchini into the broth mixture ; simmer until the zucchini is tender , about 7 minutes more . Remove pot from heat and season soup with salt . Drizzle 1 teaspoon olive oil over the soup before serving . 
1 cup warm water (115 degrees F/46 degrees C) 1/2 teaspoon active dry yeast 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 cup milk 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup semolina flour 2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt Sauce : 6 tablespoons butter 3/4 cup honey 1 teaspoon orange-flower water , or to taste (optional)  | Place the water , yeast , and sugar in a blender , and let stand without blending for 5 minutes , until the yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam . Add the milk , flour , semolina flour , eggs , baking powder , and salt . Blend until the mixture is smooth , about 1 minute . Leave the mixture in the blender to rest for about 30 minutes . Heat a 5-inch nonstick skillet over medium-low heat . Blend the pancake mixture for about 10 seconds , to remix , and scoop 1/4 to 1/3 cup of batter into the heated skillet . Cook the beghrir until bubbles have formed and popped , and the top of the pancake is no longer shiny , about 3 minutes . Do not flip . Adjust the heat as necessary so that the bottoms of the pancakes are just starting to brown when the tops are dry . Blend the batter for 10 seconds or so after cooking 3 or 4 pancakes , to keep the batter fluffy . To make the sauce , place the butter , honey , and flower-water flavoring in a microwave-safe bowl , and microwave on High setting until the butter is melted and the honey is hot , about 1 1/2 minutes . Stir the sauce , and drizzle about 1 tablespoon over each warm pancake to serve . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 (15 ounce) can fava beans , drained 1 lemon , juiced 1/3 cup tahini 5 cloves garlic , crushed salt and pepper to taste  | Heat olive oil in small to medium saucepan over medium-high heat . Cook onion in oil until softened . Stir in the beans and lemon juice . Next , stir in the tahini until mixture is thick . Then , add the garlic , and cook for a few minutes more . Season to taste with salt and pepper . 
1 teaspoon vegetable oil 1 pound wild salmon fillet salt and pepper to taste 4 thin slices lemon 2 thin slices sweet onion , separated into rings 1/3 cup mayonnaise 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon harissa 1/4 teaspoon smoked paprika 1 tablespoon orange juice 1 tablespoon white wine  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Coat the inside of a 9x12-inch baking dish with vegetable oil . Sprinkle the salmon with salt and pepper , and place into the baking dish . Arrange the lemon slices and onion rings on the salmon . In a bowl , mix together the mayonnaise , lemon juice , harissa , and smoked paprika until the mixture is smooth and well combined . Spread the mayonnaise mixture over the fish , lemon , and onion slices , getting the sauce onto the fish . Pour the orange juice and wine around the salmon . Bake in the preheated oven until the fish is hot and has begun to turn opaque , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the baking dish from the oven , set a broiler rack to about 5 inches from the broiler , and turn the broiler on . Broil the fish until nicely browned , about 3 minutes . 
1 cup plain yogurt 2 teaspoons curry powder 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 large onion 1 cup cubed lamb stew meat 12 ounces dried apricots 8 kabob skewers  | Make the sauce by mixing together the yogurt , curry powder , sugar and oil in a small bowl . Taste and adjust seasonings to your liking . Peel and cut the onion into 1 inch cubes . Thread skewers alternating lamb cubes , onion dried apricot halves . Place them into a large resealable bag and pour in the sauce . Make sure the kabobs are evenly well coated . Refrigerate and allow to marinate overnight or for at least 8 hours . Preheat grill to medium heat and lightly oil grate . Grill the kabobs over medium coals for 8 to 10 minutes on each side , or to your desired doneness . 
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil for frying 1 large potato , thinly sliced 2 pounds ground beef 1/2 onion , minced 3 cloves garlic 1/2 bunch fresh parsley , chopped 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice 1 1/2 teaspoons ground nutmeg 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 large tomato , thinly sliced 1/2 onion , sliced 2 cups long grain white rice 4 cups water  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat the oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . When the oil is hot , place potato slices in a thin layer , and fry just until golden . Remove with a slotted spoon , and set aside on paper towels . In a medium bowl , mix together the ground beef , minced onion , garlic , parsley , salt , pepper , allspice , nutmeg , and cumin . Press flat into a 7x11 inch baking dish . Arrange potato slices over the meat in an even layer . Place tomato slices over the potato . Top with slices of onion . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake for 45 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove the aluminum foil from the top , and continue to bake for another 15 minutes , or until browned . While the kifta is cooking , combine the rice and water in a saucepan . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes or until rice is tender . When kifta is done , cut into squares and serve over rice . 
1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 cup butter 3 large eggs 1 1/2 cups pumpkin puree 1 cup milk 1/2 cup cake flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 pinch ground cinnamon , or as desired  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Grease a 9-inch square baking dish . Beat sugar , butter , and eggs together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy ; add pumpkin and mix well . Beat milk , flour , and baking powder into pumpkin mixture until smooth ; pour into the prepared baking dish and sprinkle cinnamon over the top . Bake in the preheated oven until set in the middle , 45 minutes to 1 hour . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3 cups chopped yams 2 large onions , chopped 2 cups chopped cabbage 2 tomatoes , chopped 6 tablespoons flaked coconut 3 cloves garlic , minced 3 cups tomato juice 1 cup apple juice 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 pinch salt 1 large green bell pepper , chopped 1/2 cup peanut butter  | Heat olive oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat . Cook and stir yams , onions , cabbage , tomatoes , coconut , and garlic in the hot oil until the vegetables are slightly browned , 7 to 10 minutes . Pour tomato juice and apple juice into the Dutch oven ; season with ginger , cayenne pepper , and salt . Reduce heat to medium-low and cook at a simmer for 1 hour . Stir bell pepper and peanut butter into the mixture . Cook , stirring regularly , until the peanut butter is melted completely into the soup , about 30 minutes more . 
