1 onion , cut into chunks 1 green bell pepper , cut into chunks 1 bunch fresh parsley 1 bunch fresh cilantro 1 bunch recao , or culantro 3 cloves garlic 1 tablespoon water , or as needed 1 pound ground beef 1 (1.41 ounce) package sazon seasoning ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch adobo seasoning , or to taste olive oil 8 ripe plantains , peeled and cut on the bias 4 eggs , beaten 2 (15 ounce) cans green beans , drained 4 eggs , beaten  | To make sofrito : Place the onion , bell pepper , parsley , cilantro , recao , garlic , and water into a blender . Cover , and puree until smooth . Pour mixture into a bowl ; cover and refrigerate until ready to use . Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat and stir in the ground beef . Cook and stir until the beef is crumbly , evenly browned , and no longer pink . Stir in 2 tablespoons of sofrito into the beef , then season with sazon , pepper , and adobo . Drain and discard any excess grease ; set aside . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat a skillet over medium heat . Arrange the plantains in the skillet and pan fry until golden and softened , 3 to 5 minutes . Remove from heat . Layer half of the plantains in a deep baking dish , making sure to cover the entire bottom of the dish . Pour 4 beaten eggs over the plantains , then spread the beef on top . Layer the green beans over the beef , then arrange the remaining plantains on top . Pour 4 more beaten eggs evenly over the plantains . Sprinkle the top with adobo seasoning . Bake in the preheated oven until the eggs are firm , 30 to 45 minutes . 
2 pounds mahi mahi fillets 1/2 cup dark rum 1/2 cup fresh lime juice 2 onion , sliced into thin rings 1 lemon , sliced 2 teaspoons dried oregano 4 tablespoons butter ground black pepper to taste  | Arrange the fish fillets in an oven proof 9x13 glass baking dish . Pour the rum and lime juice over the fish and place a slice onion on each fillet . Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Remove fish from the refrigerator and pour off about 3/4 of the liquid . Leave the onion slices in the dish and place a thick slice of lemon on each fish fillet . Sprinkle with oregano and black pepper to taste . Place a pat of butter or margarine on each fillet . Bake , covered , at 350 degrees F (165 degrees C) for about 20 to 30 minutes or until fish flakes easily with a fork . Be careful not to over cook the fish or it will be dry . Serve with the cooked onion and lemon slices . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 pounds beef flank steak 1 cup beef broth 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 small onion , sliced 1 green bell pepper , seeded and sliced into strips 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon white vinegar  | Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Brown the flank steak on each side , about 4 minutes per side . Transfer beef to a slow cooker . Pour in the beef broth and tomato sauce , then add the onion , bell pepper , garlic , tomato paste , cumin , cilantro , olive oil and vinegar . Stir until well blended . Cover , and cook on High for 4 hours , or on Low for up to 10 hours . When ready to serve , shred meat and serve with tortillas or rice . 
1 cup uncooked long grain white rice 3 1/2 cups cold water 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Place the rice in a bowl with enough water to cover it and let it soak overnight . Strain the rice and discard the water . Stir the cold water and evaporated milk together . Place the drained rice into a blender along with half of the diluted milk . Blend until the rice is finely ground , about 30 seconds . Add the sugar , cinnamon , and vanilla ; blend well . Pour in the remaining diluted milk ; blend . Line a strainer with two layers of cheesecloth . Place the strainer over another bowl to catch the liquid . Strain the rice milk through the cheesecloth , discard the solids . Repeat the process if necessary . Serve over ice . 
2 pounds mahi mahi fillets 1/2 cup dark rum 1/2 cup fresh lime juice 2 onion , sliced into thin rings 1 lemon , sliced 2 teaspoons dried oregano 4 tablespoons butter ground black pepper to taste  | Arrange the fish fillets in an oven proof 9x13 glass baking dish . Pour the rum and lime juice over the fish and place a slice onion on each fillet . Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Remove fish from the refrigerator and pour off about 3/4 of the liquid . Leave the onion slices in the dish and place a thick slice of lemon on each fish fillet . Sprinkle with oregano and black pepper to taste . Place a pat of butter or margarine on each fillet . Bake , covered , at 350 degrees F (165 degrees C) for about 20 to 30 minutes or until fish flakes easily with a fork . Be careful not to over cook the fish or it will be dry . Serve with the cooked onion and lemon slices . 
1 1/2 pounds sweet potatoes , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1 pound pork , cut into 1-inch squares 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 1/4 cup orange juice 1 1/2 tablespoons lime juice 2 cloves garlic , pressed 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro , or to taste  | Mix sweet potatoes , pork , diced tomatoes with green chile peppers , orange juice , lime juice , garlic , cumin , salt , and black pepper together in a slow cooker . Cook on Low for 6 hours . Garnish with cilantro . 
2 cups water 3 tablespoons white sugar , or more to taste 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups cornmeal , or as needed 3 cups vegetable oil for frying vegetable oil 1/2 cup mayonnaise , or to taste 1/4 cup ketchup 1 pinch garlic salt , or to taste (optional)  | Bring water to a boil in a saucepan and stir in sugar , butter , and salt until sugar has dissolved . Turn heat to low and whisk in 1 cup of cornmeal until smooth . Stir in remaining 1/2 cup cornmeal to make a very thick , workable dough . Heat 3 cups vegetable oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease your hands well with 2 teaspoons of oil and scoop about 3 tablespoons of cornmeal dough ; roll the dough into a ball , then shape into a 3-inch long stick about 1/2 inch wide . Repeat with remaining dough , oiling your hands as needed . Deep-fry the cornmeal sticks until golden brown , working in batches of 3 or 4 at a time . Drain fried cornmeal sticks on paper towels and keep warm . Mix mayonnaise , ketchup , and garlic salt in a bowl until well combined ; serve cornmeal sticks with the sauce for dipping . 
15 habanero peppers 1 small mango - peeled , seeded , and cut into chunks 1 onion , roughly chopped 3 green onions , roughly chopped 2 cloves garlic , roughly chopped 1 1/2 cups distilled white vinegar 2 limes , juiced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 cup dry mustard powder 1 tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon grated lime zest  | Wearing disposable gloves , and being careful not to get any in your eyes or on your skin , roughly chop the habanero peppers . Place the habanero peppers , mango , onion , green onions , and garlic into a blender . Pour in the vinegar , lime juice , and vegetable oil , cover the blender , and pulse until the mixture is very finely chopped . Stop the blender , and add dry mustard powder , salt , curry powder , and lime zest . Blend again until the sauce is smooth . Pour into clean jars , and store in refrigerator . 
2 1/2 pounds bone-in chicken pieces 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon sea salt 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 2 tablespoons white sugar 3 bok choy stalks , chopped  | Stir together the garlic powder , salt , cayenne pepper , and sazon seasoning in a shallow dish . Coat chicken pieces with this mixture . Heat a Dutch oven or heavy skillet with a lid over medium heat for at least 3 minutes . Sprinkle the sugar over the bottom of the pan , and stir gently until it becomes liquid and caramelizes . Add the chicken , cover , and cook for about 25 minutes . Remove cover , and cook for another 15 to 20 minutes , letting the juices cook down until they are almost gone . Add the bok choy , and cook just until wilted . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 cups fresh okra , ends trimmed and halved lengthwise salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 lime , juiced  | Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the okra , salt , and pepper . Increase the heat to high ; cook and stir until the okra begins to brown , about 10 minutes . Pour the lime juice over the okra and continue cooking for 2 minutes . 
6 cloves garlic , coarsely chopped 1/2 cup minced yellow onion 1 cup freshly squeezed orange juice 1/2 cup freshly squeezed lime juice 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano flakes 1/2 teaspoon lemon-pepper seasoning 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce (e.g . Tabasco™) (optional) 1 cup olive oil  | Pulse the garlic and onion in a blender until very finely chopped . Pour in orange juice , lime juice ; season with cumin , oregano , lemon-pepper , black pepper , salt , cilantro , and hot pepper sauce . Blend until thoroughly incorporated . Pour in the olive oil , and blend until smooth . 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 cup unsalted butter - chilled , cut into tablespoon-size pieces 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lime zest 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 3 eggs 1/2 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Sift together the flour , baking powder and salt , set aside . In a medium bowl , cream together the sugar and butter . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the lime zest , nutmeg , cinnamon and allspice . Add the dry ingredients alternately with the milk , stirring after each addition . Pour batter into the prepared pan . Bake for 75 to 90 minutes in the preheated oven , until a toothpick inserted comes out clean . Cool in the pan for 10 minutes before turning out onto a rack to cool completely . 
10 fresh mint leaves 1/2 lime , cut into 4 wedges 2 tablespoons white sugar , or to taste 1 cup ice cubes 1 1/2 fluid ounces white rum 1/2 cup club soda  | Place mint leaves and 1 lime wedge into a sturdy glass . Use a muddler to crush the mint and lime to release the mint oils and lime juice . Add 2 more lime wedges and the sugar , and muddle again to release the lime juice . Do not strain the mixture . Fill the glass almost to the top with ice . Pour the rum over the ice , and fill the glass with carbonated water . Stir , taste , and add more sugar if desired . Garnish with the remaining lime wedge . 
3 1/2 cups brown sugar 2 (8 ounce) packages grated coconut 1 cup all-purpose flour 3/4 cup seedless raisins 4 ounces candied mixed fruit peel 4 ounces fresh cherries , pitted and cut into small pieces 1/4 cup baking powder 1 tablespoon mixed essence 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 cup margarine 1/2 cup shortening 1/2 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon water , or more if needed 5 teaspoons white sugar , or more to taste  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Grease five 8x4-inch baking pans . Combine brown sugar , coconut , flour , raisins , fruit peel , cherries , baking powder , mixed essence , and nutmeg in a large bowl using a large wooden spoon . Combine margarine and shortening in a microwave-safe bowl ; heat in microwave until melted , 30 seconds to 1 minute . Pour melted mixture into flour mixture , alternating with milk , until batter is just mixed . Add water , a teaspoon at a time , if more moisture is needed . Pour batter into the prepared baking pans , smoothing the tops with the back of a wet spoon . Sprinkle white sugar over each loaf . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick or skewer inserted in the middle comes out clean , about 1 hour . Cool in the pans for 5 minutes . Invert onto cooking racks . 
1 teaspoon butter , softened 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 cup shredded coconut 1 teaspoon baking powder 3/4 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 1/3 cup low-fat milk 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup canola oil 1 1/4 teaspoons coconut extract (optional) 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a loaf pan with butter . Combine flour , sugar , coconut , baking powder , and salt in a large bowl ; stir once or twice with a wooden spoon . Add eggs , milk , water , oil , coconut extract , vanilla extract , and cinnamon . Mix well until batter is blended . Pour batter into the greased loaf pan . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , about 1 hour . Cool in the pan for 15 minutes . Invert onto a wire rack to cool completely . 
Filling : 2 cups chicken stock 1 cup dried yellow split peas 1 scotch bonnet chile pepper , minced 2 garlic cloves 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin Puri : 2 1/2 cups self-rising flour 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 cup warm water , or more as needed  | Bring chicken stock and yellow split peas to a boil in a saucepan . Reduce heat and simmer until split peas are soft , about 20 minutes . Drain and let cool , about 15 minutes . Combine yellow split peas , scotch bonnet chile pepper , garlic , turmeric , and cumin in a food processor ; blend until filling is finely ground . Combine flour and 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a large bowl . Pour in water slowly , stirring constantly , until dough starts to come together . Add a little more water if dough seems dry . Knead dough on a floured work surface until soft and no longer sticky . Let dough rest for 10 minutes , covered with a damp cloth . Roll dough into a large circle about 1/4-inch thick . Brush 1 teaspoon vegetable oil over the surface of the dough . Roll up into a long roll . Cut into 10 pieces . Roll each piece of dough into a 6-inch circle . Let circles rest , covered with damp cloth , for 5 minutes . Divide filling among circles . Wrap dough around filling , pinching edges to seal ; roll into balls . Roll each ball back out into a large , thin circle . Heat 1 teaspoon oil in a large skillet . Cook 1 piece of dough in the hot skillet until it puffs up and turns light brown , about 2 minutes . Flip and continue cooking until second side is browned , 1 to 2 minutes . Transfer to a colander to cool ; cover with a damp cloth . Repeat with remaining oil and dough . 
1 teaspoon ghee (clarified butter) 2 ounces vermicelli , broken into 1/2-inch pieces 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 12 fluid ounces water 3 tablespoons sweetened condensed milk 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 3 tablespoons raisins 1/2 cup toasted almonds (optional)  | Heat ghee in a saucepan over medium heat . Add vermicelli ; cook and stir until golden brown , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour evaporated milk and water over vermicelli ; bring to a boil . Stir sweetened condensed milk and cinnamon into vermicelli mixture ; cook , stirring occasionally , until vermicelli is cooked and milk is thickened , 5 to 10 minutes . Stir raisins into vermicelli mixture ; cook until raisins are plump and mixture is thickened , about 5 minutes . Remove from heat and cool slightly . Serve garnished with almonds . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 1 1/2 pounds ground beef (85% lean) 1 cup diced yellow onions 1 teaspoon salt , plus more to taste 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 2 teaspoons cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 bay leaves 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 4 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons red-wine vinegar 3 cups crushed tomatoes 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup currants or raisins 1/2 cup sliced pimiento-stuffed green olives , or to taste  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add ground beef and break up into small pieces with a spoon or spatula as it browns . Cook until meat completely loses its pink color , 8 to 10 minutes . Add diced onion and salt . Cook until onions turn translucent , about 5 minutes . Add pepper , cumin , cinnamon , bay leaves , and cayenne pepper . Cook 2 minutes . Add garlic and cook 1 minute . Stir in red wine vinegar , crushed tomatoes , and water . Cook a few minutes while deglazing pan . Add currants ; bring back to a simmer . Reduce heat to medium-low ; cover and cook until meat is tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Gently stir in sliced olives ; cover and cook another 10 to 15 minutes . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1/2 large green bell pepper , finely chopped 1/2 onion , finely chopped 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon yellow mustard 3 cloves garlic , minced , or more to taste 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 slices Cheddar cheese (optional) 1/2 cup ketchup 1/2 cup mayonnaise 4 oval-shaped Portuguese rolls , split 1/2 head cabbage , finely sliced 2 tomatoes , sliced 1/2 onion , thinly sliced  | Mix ground beef , green bell pepper , finely chopped onion , Worcestershire sauce , soy sauce , yellow mustard , garlic , oregano , salt , and pepper together in a large bowl . Form mixture into 4 patties that will fit inside the rolls . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook patties until browned on the bottom , about 6 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-low and flip ; cook for 4 minutes . Top each patty with a slice of Cheddar cheese ; cook until cheese starts to melt , about 2 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of each patty should read 150 degrees F (66 degrees C) for medium-well . Mix ketchup and mayonnaise together in a small bowl . Spread evenly over both sides of each bun . Transfer a patty to each bun ; top with sliced cabbage , tomatoes , and onion . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 5 cloves garlic , chopped 3 sprigs fresh cilantro , chopped 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 pinch dried oregano salt to taste 1 1/2 pounds beef stew meat , cut into small pieces water to cover 1/2 (6.5 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 cubes beef bouillon 1 cup 1 1/2-inch cut fresh green beans 2 carrots , peeled and sliced 1/3 cup chopped celery 1 large chayote squash - peeled , cored , and sliced lengthwise 1 (15.5 ounce) can small white beans , rinsed and drained 1/2 head cabbage , chopped 1 green banana , peeled and sliced into 3/4-inch pieces 1 yellow plantain , peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces 5 large llautias (yautias) , peeled and quartered 6 potatoes , peeled and quartered 1/2 cup chopped peeled pumpkin 2 ears fresh corn , sliced into 6 pieces each 1/3 cup chopped green bell pepper  | Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium-low heat ; add onion , garlic , cilantro , white pepper , oregano , and salt . Cook and stir until onion is browned and very tender , about 20 minutes . Add stew meat ; cook and stir until meat is browned on all sides , 5 to 7 minutes . Pour enough water over meat mixture to fill pot 3/4 full ; add tomato sauce and beef bouillon . Mix green beans , carrots , celery , chayote squash , white beans , cabbage , green banana , yellow plantain , llautias , potatoes , pumpkin , corn , and green bell pepper (in this order) , cooking and stirring after each addition . Cook until all the vegetables are tender and stew has formed a rich broth , 2 to 3 hours . Add more water or salt if needed . 
1/4 cup mayonnaise 1/4 cup mustard 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 (8 ounce) loaf Cuban bread 8 slices Swiss cheese 6 thin slices smoked fully-cooked ham 1 1/2 cups cooked pulled pork , heated 1 large dill pickle , sliced thinly lengthwise 2 tablespoons butter , or as needed  | Mix mayonnaise , mustard , and cayenne together in a bowl to make the sauce . Trim off ends of bread . Cut loaf in half and evenly split bread to make tops and bottoms of 2 sandwiches . Spread each half on both sides generously with the mayo/mustard sauce . Divide sandwich ingredients between the two bottom halves in this order : 2 slices Swiss cheese , 3 slices ham , hot cooked pork , pickle slices , and 2 more slices of Swiss cheese . Place tops on sandwiches . Melt butter in a heavy skillet over medium heat . Place sandwiches in skillet and press down with a heavy weight (such as another skillet or foil-wrapped bricks) . Toast sandwiches until bread is crisp and filling is heated through , 3 or 4 minutes per side . 
Starter : 1/2 teaspoon active dry yeast 1/2 cup warm water 1/2 cup flour Dough : 1 package active dry yeast 2 teaspoons white sugar 3/4 cup warm water 3 tablespoons lard 2 teaspoons fine salt 3 cups all-purpose flour , or as needed - divided 1 tablespoon cornmeal Water to spray tops of loaves  | Combine 1/2 cup warm water , 1/2 teaspoon yeast , and 1/2 cup flour in a bowl or measuring cup . Whisk the starter until well blended . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight . Place 1 package active dry yeast and 2 teaspoons sugar in a mixing bowl . Pour in 3/4 cup warm water . Let rest 15 minutes to ensure yeast is alive (bubbles will form on surface) . Add lard and salt to bowl ; add 1 cup of the flour . Mix until all ingredients are incorporated and dough forms a sticky ball . Add the starter (reserving 1/4 cup if you want to keep the starter going , if desired . Otherwise add it all.) . Sprinkle most of the rest of the flour on the dough , reserving 1/2 cup to be used if needed when kneading . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and knead until dough comes together in a firm ball , adding additional flour only as needed . Dough should be soft and supple with just a bit of tackiness on the surface . Place dough in a bowl and coat surface with a little vegetable oil . Cover bowl with a damp kitchen towel and place in a warm spot to rise . Let rise until at least doubled in size , about 2 hours . Line two rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper and sprinkle with a little cornmeal . Transfer dough onto lightly floured surface . Lightly press the dough into a rectangle with your lightly floured hands . Divide dough in half and press and shape each half into a long 1/2-inch thick rectangle about 12 inches long . Roll up tightly starting at the long end to form a skinny loaf . Flatten a bit . Transfer each loaf to a prepared baking sheet and dust with a bit of flour . Cover with a light , dry towel and let rise until doubled in size , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Cut a 1/4-inch deep slit down the top of the loaves with a sharp knife or razor . Mist loaves lightly with water . Place pans in pre-heated oven , one pan on lower rack , one on higher rack . After 10 minutes , switch pan positions . Continue to bake until loaves are golden brown , 10 to 15 minutes longer . Transfer loaves to cooling rack and let cool to room temperature before slicing . 
9 ounces dried red sorrel buds 3 teaspoons grated ginger 3 strips dried orange zest 1 white clove 1 quart water 2/3 cup white sugar ice cubes  | Combine sorrel , ginger , dried orange zest , and clove in a bowl . Bring water to a boil in a saucepan or kettle ; pour over sorrel mixture . Stir in sugar until dissolved . Let mixture steep at room temperature , 8 hours to overnight . Strain sorrel mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into a pitcher ; discard solids . Serve over ice . 
1 teaspoon onion , finely chopped 3 tablespoons brown sugar 4 tablespoons soy sauce 4 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon sesame oil 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1 habanero pepper , sliced 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch strips  | Combine the onion , brown sugar , soy sauce , vinegar , thyme , sesame oil , garlic , allspice and habanero pepper in the container of a food processor or blender . Process until smooth . Place the chicken into a large resealable bag , and pour in 3/4 of the sauce . Squeeze out excess air , and seal . Marinate in the refrigerator for at least one hour . Preheat your oven's broiler . Remove chicken from bag , and discard marinade . Broil chicken for 10 to 15 minutes , turning once to ensure even cooking . Heat remaining sauce in a small pan , and pour over chicken when serving . 
2 large onions , chopped 3 heads garlic , cloves peeled and trimmed 1 green bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 red bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 yellow bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 bunch fresh cilantro , stems trimmed 2 tablespoons dried oregano leaves 1 tablespoon white vinegar 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 pinch salt  | Combine onions , garlic cloves , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , yellow bell pepper , cilantro , oregano , vinegar , cumin , black pepper , and salt in a food processor ; process into a smooth paste . 
2 pounds yuca , peeled and coarsely chopped 2 pounds green plantains , peeled and coarsely chopped 2 pounds yautia , peeled and coarsely chopped 2 cups milk 1 pound lard 1 pound achiote seeds 1 tablespoon olive oil , or to taste 1 onion , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 2 pounds pork shoulder roast , cut into small cubes 1 pound ham , cut into small cubes 2 cups garbanzo beans 2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 1 (5 ounce) jar pitted Spanish olives 1 (4 ounce) jar capers 3 tablespoons orange juice 4 sprigs cilantro , chopped 2 tablespoons dried oregano 1 tablespoon salt 2 cloves garlic , minced 24 plantain leaves kitchen string  | Combine yuca , green plantains , yautia , and milk in a blender ; puree into a thick paste the consistency of oatmeal . Combine lard and achiote seeds in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; heat until lard is melted , and reddish in color , about 5 minutes . Strain out achiote seeds . Mix half of the lard into the yuca paste . Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium heat . Add onion and green bell pepper ; cook and stir until tender , about 5 minutes . Add pork , ham , garbanzo beans , tomato sauce , olives , capers , orange juice , cilantro , oregano , salt , and garlic ; cook and stir until pork is no longer pink in the center , 8 to 10 minutes . Remove from heat . Mix 2/3 of the remaining lard into the pork mixture . Smear each plantain leaf with a small amount of remaining lard . Place a large spoonful of the yuca paste in the center of each one ; top with a scoop of the pork mixture . Fold up the sides of each leaf to enclose the filling and create a rectangular pastel . Stack 2 pasteles and tie them together with kitchen string . Repeat with remaining pasteles . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Add pasteles . Cook until filling is tender , about 1 hour . Unwrap pasteles before serving . 
6 flounder fillets 1/4 cup fresh lime juice 3 tablespoons dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup butter 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 1 large onion , finely chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 orange bell pepper , chopped 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 3 cloves garlic , minced 4 tomatoes , seeded and chopped 1/2 cup fresh orange juice 2 tablespoons jerk seasoning 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place flounder fillets in a 9x13-inch baking dish . Mix lime juice , parsley , and salt together in a small bowl . Pour over fillets . Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add olive oil , onion , red bell pepper , orange bell pepper , jalapeno pepper , and garlic ; cook and stir until tender , about 8 minutes . Stir in tomatoes , orange juice , jerk seasoning , salt , and pepper ; bring to a boil . Remove from heat . Spread 3/4 of the onion mixture over the fillets in the baking dish . Bake in the preheated oven until fillets flake easily with a fork , 10 to 13 minutes . Let stand for 5 minutes before serving . Serve remaining onion mixture alongside fillets . 
3 pounds chicken legs 1 cup lemon juice 1/2 white onion , chopped 1 head garlic , cloves separated and minced 3 tablespoons seasoned salt 3 tablespoons paprika 3 tablespoons ground thyme 2 tablespoons ground black pepper 2 tablespoons whole cloves vegetable oil for frying  | Combine chicken legs , lemon juice , onion , garlic , seasoned salt , paprika , thyme , pepper , and cloves in a large bowl . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours . Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan over medium-high heat . Fry chicken in batches until golden brown , about 8 minutes per side . Drain on paper towels . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup cold water 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup vegetable shortening 1/4 cup butter 2 shallots , chopped 2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 pinch chile powder , or to taste 1 pound ground beef 1 onion , diced 1 tablespoon beef broth 1 egg yolk , beaten  | Place flour in a large bowl . Make a well in the center ; add water and salt . Mix lightly with a wooden spoon until dough comes together . Cover with plastic wrap and chill for 30 minutes . Mix shortening and butter together in a small bowl . Transfer dough to a flat work surface ; roll into a rectangle about 1/4-inch thick . Spread 1/2 of the shortening mixture on top . Fold 1 side of the rectangle into the center ; spread remaining shortening on top . Fold other side of the rectangle over the first , like a letter . Roll into a 1/4-inch-thick rectangle ; fold into thirds . Repeat the rolling and folding process one more time . Wrap dough with plastic wrap and chill , 8 hours to overnight . Fill a baking pan with water and place on the bottom rack of the oven . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Pound shallots , parsley , garlic , and chile powder into paste with a mortar and pestle . Preheat a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir beef until browned , about 5 minutes . Stir in shallot paste , onion , and beef broth . Cover and cook , stirring constantly , until juices are absorbed , about 10 minutes . Let cool , about 5 minutes . Roll chilled dough to a rectangle about 1/2-inch thick . Cut into 2 1/2-inch circles . Place 1 1/3 tablespoon of the beef mixture on 1 side of each circle . Fold and lightly press edges to seal . Transfer filled patties to a baking sheet . Brush tops and edges with egg yolk . Bake in the preheated oven until puffy , about 30 minutes . Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) and continue baking until golden brown , about 20 minutes . 
1 1/2 cups water 1 cup white rice 1/2 cup coconut milk 1/2 cup canned kidney beans 1 teaspoon dried thyme salt to taste 3 whole cloves 1 small onion  | Combine water , rice , coconut milk , kidney beans , thyme , and salt in a large pot . Stick cloves into onion and add to the pot . Bring to a boil ; simmer , covered , until most of the liquid is absorbed , about 20 minutes . Uncover and cook until remaining liquid is reduced , about 5 minutes more . 
3/4 cup warm water 2 tablespoons brown sugar 3/4 teaspoon active dry yeast 1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup whole wheat flour 3 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vegetable oil , divided  | Stir water and brown sugar together in a small bowl . Sprinkle yeast evenly over the surface . Cover with a clean cloth and let stand until yeast softens and forms a creamy foam , about 7 minutes . Mix all-purpose flour , whole wheat flour , shortening , and salt together in a large bowl until shortening is thoroughly incorporated . Pour in yeast mixture ; mix with your hands or a wooden spoon until dough comes together . Dust a flat work surface with flour . Knead dough until smooth and holding its shape . Lightly grease a large bowl with 1 teaspoon vegetable oil . Add dough ; turn to coat with oil . Cover with a clean cloth and let rise until doubled , about 35 minutes . Gently punch down dough to deflate . Dust your work surface with more flour . Roll dough out until it is 1/3-inch thick . Fold in half and roll out again . Repeat this process 4 times . Fill a large baking pan with 1 inch water and place it on the bottom rack of the oven . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a jelly roll pan with 1 teaspoon vegetable oil . Cut dough into 9 pieces and place on the greased pan . Cover with a clean , damp cloth ; let rise until puffy , about 25 minutes . Bake in the preheated oven above the water until browned on top , 15 to 20 minutes . 
2 pounds lean ground beef 1/4 cup olive oil 1/2 onion , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 2 tablespoons minced garlic 2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 2 cups water 1/2 cup red cooking wine 3 tablespoons hot sauce (such as Louisiana®) 1 (1.41 ounce) package sazon seasoning (such as Badia® Tropical®) 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground bay leaf 3 ounces Spanish-style olives 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1 small butternut squash , peeled and cut into cubes  | Cook and stir ground beef in a large stockpot until browned , 5 to 10 minutes . Drain grease . Heat olive oil in small skillet over medium heat . Add onion , green bell pepper , and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir into beef in the stockpot . Pour tomato sauce , water , cooking wine , and hot sauce into the stockpot . Stir in sazon seasoning , parsley , garlic powder , onion powder , cumin , pepper , and bay leaf . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and simmer picadillo , uncovered , until slightly thickened , about 10 minutes . Split olives in half with your fingers and stir into the picadillo . Add squash . Simmer until liquid reduces but picadillo is not dry , 45 to 60 minutes . Season with salt . 
3 pounds bone-in goat meat , cubed 1/2 cup white vinegar 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup Jamaican curry powder , divided 2 Scotch bonnet peppers , seeded and chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 6 allspice berries (pimento seeds) 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 sprigs fresh thyme , leaves stripped 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 large potatoes , diced (optional) 2 carrots , diced (optional) water to cover  | Combine goat meat and vinegar in a large bowl ; cover with water . Let stand , about 5 minutes . Drain , massaging the meat . Mix onion , 6 tablespoons curry powder , Scotch bonnet peppers , garlic , allspice berries , salt , pepper , and thyme together in a bowl to make a spice rub . Rub into goat meat until coated . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate , 8 hours to overnight . Scrape spice rub off the goat meat , reserving it in a bowl . Heat oil in a large saucepan over high heat . Add remaining 2 tablespoons curry powder ; stir until dark and fragrant , about 1 minute . Add goat meat ; cook until browned , 1 to 2 minutes per side . Stir reserved spice rub , potatoes , and carrots into the saucepan . Pour in enough water to cover . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to medium-low and simmer , covered , adding more water as needed , until goat meat is tender , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Discard allspice berries . Season with salt and pepper . 
3 pounds beef tripe , trimmed of fat and cut into cubes 4 lemons , juiced water to cover 3 quarts beef stock , divided 8 ounces cassava , peeled and cubed 8 ounces potatoes , peeled and cubed 8 ounces yams , peeled and cubed 8 ounces pumpkin , peeled and cubed 8 ounces sweet potatoes , peeled and cubed 1/2 (16 ounce) can tomato sauce 2/3 cup sofrito 1 ear corn , cut into 1-inch pieces salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Combine tripe and lemon juice in a large bowl . Let sit , about 10 minutes . Transfer tripe and lemon juice to a large pot . Cover with 2 inches of water . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and cook , stirring occasionally , until slightly softened , about 10 minutes . Drain and rinse tripe . Return tripe to the pot . Cover with 2 quarts beef broth , adding water as needed . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat and cook until tender , about 2 hours . Stir remaining beef stock , cassava , potatoes , yams , pumpkin , sweet potatoes , tomato sauce , sofrito , and corn into the pot . Cook until tender , about 20 minutes more . Season with salt and pepper . 
1 (4 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces 3 tablespoons finely chopped green onion 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 cup brown sugar 1 cup water 1/2 cup canned coconut milk (optional) 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional) 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 tablespoon butter  | Place chicken on a plate . Sprinkle the green onion , cilantro , garlic , onion , salt and pepper over it . Cover , and marinate for 30 minutes . Heat the vegetable oil in a deep pot over medium heat . Stir in the sugar , and cook until the sugar has melted into a nice golden brown syrup . Add the chicken pieces , and brown quickly while turning continuously . Cover the pot , and let it cook for 2 minutes . Pour in 1 cup of water , coconut milk and pepper flakes . Replace the lid , and cook over medium heat for 10 minutes . Stir in the ketchup and butter . Continue cooking until chicken is fork tender , 20 to 30 minutes . Taste and season with additional salt and pepper if needed . Serve chicken with the sauce in the pot as a gravy . 
2 pounds beef skirt steak 1 large navel orange , juiced 3 limes , juiced 1/4 cup olive oil , plus more for drizzling 6 cloves garlic , finely minced 1 tablespoon kosher salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 onion , thinly sliced 1/2 cup fresh chopped cilantro 1 teaspoon coarse salt for finishing Lime wedges for serving  | Cut skirt steaks into about 3 or 4 smaller pieces so it's easier to fit them into marinade dish . Whisk orange juice , lime juice , olive oil , garlic , salt , cumin , pepper , oregano , and cayenne pepper together in a large bowl . Place skirt steak pieces , 1 at a time , into the marinade to thoroughly coat them . Add sliced onions and toss with the meat . Transfer mixture and marinade to a resealable plastic bag . Squeeze out air , seal bag , and place on a dish . Refrigerate 2 to 3 hours . Transfer pieces of meat onto paper towel-lined rimmed sheet pan to drain for a couple of minutes . Cook over hot coals . Grill first side 3 to 4 minutes . Turn and grill second side until internal temperature is about 125 degrees F (53 degrees C) . Look for a shiny glossy surface indicating the meat juice is coming to the surface ; this indicates the meat is just about done . Transfer to a plate and allow meat to rest a few minutes . Slice into 1/2-inch slices and arrange on a serving plate . Spoon accumulated juices over the meat . Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with coarse salt and chopped cilantro . Serve with lime wedges . 
2 pounds pork shoulder roast , cut into chunks salt and ground black pepper to taste 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil , divided 8 cups chicken stock , divided 1 (15 ounce) can pigeon peas , drained and rinsed 1/2 onion , finely chopped 3/4 cup arborio rice 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Season pork with salt and pepper . Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Add pork ; cook until browned , about 2 minutes per side . Pour in 2 cups chicken stock . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer pork until is fork-tender , about 1 hour . Shred with a fork and transfer to a plate . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in the pot over medium heat . Add pigeon peas and onion ; cook and stir for 2 minutes . Stir in arborio rice . Pour in enough chicken stock to barely cover the rice ; cook and stir until absorbed . Continue adding stock , stirring often , until each addition is absorbed and rice is tender yet firm to the bite , about 20 minutes . Fold shredded pork into the rice . Sprinkle Parmesan cheese on top . 
1/4 cup olive oil 3 tablespoons white vinegar 10 cloves garlic , or more to taste 2 tablespoons dried oregano 1 tablespoon salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 5 pounds pork shoulder , trimmed of excess fat  | Combine olive oil , vinegar , garlic , oregano , salt , and black pepper in a mortar and pestle ; mash into a paste . Make deep slits into the pork with a small knife . Stuff slits with the paste ; rub any remaining paste over the pork . Place pork in a plastic roasting bag and put in a roasting pan with a rack . Let marinate in the refrigerator , 8 to 48 hours . Take pork out of the refrigerator , uncover , and bring to room temperature , 1 to 2 hours . Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Roast pork skin-side down in the preheated oven until golden brown , about 2 hours . Flip pork and continue roasting , skin-side up , until juices run clear and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center reads at least 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) , 2 to 4 hours more . 
9 cloves garlic 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (7 pound) skin-on , bone-in pork shoulder (picnic) roast 1 (1.5 liter) bottle red table wine  | Crush garlic into small pieces in a mortar and pestle . Add olive oil , salt , oregano , and black pepper ; mash into a paste . Make 12 deep incisions a few inches apart in the roast using a sharp knife . Pack the seasoned garlic paste evenly into the incisions and over the roast . Transfer roast to a large bowl . Pour in red wine , covering roast completely . Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator , 24 hours . Pour out red wine . Place roast fat-side up in a roasting pan ; cover with aluminum foil . Let sit at room temperature , about 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place roast in the preheated oven ; reduce temperature to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Bake until slightly pink in the center , about 4 hours . Increase temperature to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Uncover roast and continue baking until fat is crispy and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center reads 160 degrees F (71 degrees C) , about 1 hour more . Remove from oven and let rest before carving , 20 to 30 minutes . 
4 (3 ounce) fillets salmon fillets , or more to taste ice cold water to cover 1 pinch salt 4 drops lemon juice 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons jerk marinade , or more to taste 3 bunches scallions , chopped 1/2 yellow onion , thinly sliced 5 sprigs cilantro , chopped 1 teaspoon chopped ginger 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  | Place salmon in a large bowl with ice cold water and 1 pinch salt . Let soak , about 10 minutes . Run a knife along the skin to remove all scales . Rinse salmon in ice cold water and lemon juice . Pat dry with a paper towel . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Combine garlic powder and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a small bowl . Sprinkle lightly over both sides of each salmon fillet . Rub jerk marinade over both sides of salmon . Place salmon fillets in a large bowl . Add scallions , onion , cilantro , and ginger ; mix well to combine . Heat oil in an ovensafe skillet over medium heat . Cook salmon fillets skin-side down , in batches if necessary , until skin is golden , about 2 minutes . Flip and continue cooking until flesh is pale pink , 1 to 2 minutes more . Place skillet in the oven . Bake salmon in the preheated oven until flesh flakes easily with a fork , about 2 minutes . Remove skillet from oven and allow salmon to rest before serving , 3 to 5 minutes . 
1 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon lime juice 1 sprig yerba buena (fresh mint) 2 fluid ounces sparkling water ice cubes 2 fluid ounces rum 2 fluid ounces champagne  | Mix sugar and lime juice in a glass ; add mint and muddle until mint is broken down . Add sparkling water and ice cubes . Mix rum and champagne into the drink . 
2 yellow onions , quartered 2 (4 ounce) links chorizo sausage , casings removed 1 green bell pepper , quartered and seeded 6 cloves clove garlic 1 pound lean ground beef 1 pound ground pork 1 cup Italian-style bread crumbs 2 eggs , beaten 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 dash ground cumin sea salt to taste freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon vegetable oil , or as needed 12 hamburger buns , split 1 (9 ounce) can shoestring potatoes (such as Pik-Nik®)  | Place yellow onions , chorizo , green bell pepper , and garlic in a food processor ; pulse until minced . Transfer onion mixture to a large bowl . Add ground beef , ground pork , bread crumbs , eggs , ketchup , cumin , salt , and black pepper ; mix with your hands until well-blended . Form mixture into 12 patties . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook patties in batches until browned and medium well done , about 5 minutes per side . Serve cooked patties on hamburger buns topped with shoestring potatoes . 
1 packet sazon seasoning , or more to taste 1 pinch freshly cracked black pepper , or to taste 2 pounds untrimmed skirt steak , or more to taste 2 green bell peppers , seeded and diced 2 red bell peppers , seeded and diced 1 large onion , diced 6 cloves garlic , minced  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Sprinkle sazon seasoning and black pepper over steaks ; rub in lightly with your fingers . Arrange steaks close together , but not overlapping , in a large casserole dish . Mix green bell peppers , red bell peppers , onion , and garlic together in a large bowl . Spoon over steaks in the casserole dish . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until peppers are soft and steaks are cooked through , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . 
1 large green bell pepper 1 large red bell pepper 2 teaspoons olive oil 10 sweet chile peppers (ajicitos dulces) , seeded 1 large yellow onion , quartered 1 bunch scallions , trimmed 2 plum tomatoes , seeded 25 cloves garlic , peeled and trimmed 2 bunches fresh cilantro , ends trimmed 2 bunches culantro 1/4 cup pimento-stuffed green olives 5 large leaves Caribbean wild oregano (oregano brujo) 2 tablespoons capers 1/2 cup olive oil , or more as needed 1/4 cup water  | Set oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source and preheat the oven's broiler . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil . Cut green bell pepper and red bell pepper in half from top to bottom ; remove the stem , seeds , and ribs . Place peppers cut sides down onto the prepared baking sheet . Lightly brush with 2 teaspoons olive oil . Roast under the preheated broiler until the skin of the peppers has blackened and blistered , 5 to 8 minutes . Transfer to a resealable plastic bag . Seal to let peppers steam as they cool , about 15 minutes . Remove skins under running water and discard . Chop flesh into large pieces . Place pepper pieces , sweet chile peppers , onion , scallions , tomatoes , garlic , cilantro , culantro , olives , oregano , and capers in a blender or food processor . Blend , adding 1/2 cup olive oil and water in batches , until mixture is pureed but some chunks remain . Divide blended mixture among four 16-ounce containers , filling each 3/4 of the way . Top each with 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil to help preserve mixture . Close containers and refrigerate . 
1 small potato , peeled and cubed 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 cup sweet corn kernels 2 tablespoons sofrito 2 cloves garlic 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 bay leaf 1/2 cup water 1 (12 ounce) can corned beef salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Bring a small pot of water to a boil . Add potato and cook uncovered until slightly tender , about 5 minutes . Drain in a colander . Heat oil in a large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat . Add drained potatoes , corn , sofrito , and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Add tomato sauce , oregano , and bay leaf ; cook and stir until flavors combine , 2 to 3 minutes . Add water and bring mixture to a boil . Lower heat to medium-low ; stir in corned beef . Cook until heated through , 6 to 8 minutes . 
2 (12 ounce) packages fresh cranberries 1 orange , zested 3 cinnamon sticks 2 cups orange juice 2 cups packed brown sugar  | In a medium saucepan , combine cranberries , orange zest , cinnamon , orange juice , and brown sugar . Add enough water to cover , and bring to a boil over high heat . Immediately reduce heat , and simmer for about 1 hour , or until the sauce has thickened . Taste for sweetness , and adjust with additional sugar if necessary . You can not overcook , so continue cooking until you have a good thick consistency . Let mixture cool , then refrigerate in a covered container . 
2 pounds goat stew meat , cut into 1-inch cubes 2 fresh hot chile peppers , seeded and chopped 2 tablespoons curry powder 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 1 rib celery , chopped 2 1/2 cups vegetable broth 1 bay leaf 3 potatoes , peeled and cut into 1-inch chunks , or more as desired  | Combine goat meat , chile pepper , curry powder , garlic , salt , and black pepper in a bowl . Cover and refrigerate to allow flavors to blend , 1 hour to overnight . Remove goat meat mixture from bowl and pat dry , reserving marinade . Heat vegetable oil in a stockpot over medium-high heat . Cook meat in batches , browning on all sides , 5 to 6 minutes per batch . Transfer meat to a plate . Add onion and celery to the stockpot ; cook and stir until onion begins to brown , 4 to 6 minutes . Stir browned goat meat into onion mixture . Add reserved marinade , vegetable broth , and bay leaf . Bring to a boil , cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer for 1 hour . Stir in potatoes ; simmer until potatoes and meat are tender , 35 to 45 minutes more . Remove stockpot from heat , skim off surface fat , and remove bay leaf . 
1 1/2 cups vino seco (white cooking wine) 1/4 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 4 pounds beef oxtails 2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 2 potatoes , peeled and quartered 2 cups diced onion 1 cup diced carrots 6 cloves garlic , coarsely chopped 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup green olives , pitted and halved 3 bay leaves 2 teaspoons Miami-style sazon seasoning (sazon completa) 1/2 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning (such as Sa-Son Accent®) 1/2 teaspoon allspice 2 (15 ounce) cans tomato sauce 3 cups chicken broth  | Whisk vino seco , 1/4 cup olive oil , and salt together in a large bowl . Add oxtails and mix well to coat . Cover with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for 12 hours . Drain oxtails , discarding all but 1/2 cup of the marinade . Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat and sear oxtails until browned on all sides , about 2 minutes per side . Transfer to a large plate . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in the same pot . Saute potatoes , onion , and carrots until onions are translucent , about 5 minutes . Mash garlic and 1/2 teaspoon salt into a coarse paste in a mortar and pestle . Add garlic paste to the pot ; stir until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Stir in green olives , bay leaves , sazon completa , sazon seasoning , and allspice . Pour in reserved marinade , tomato sauce , and chicken broth . Return oxtails to the pot . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer , covered , until oxtails are fork tender and falling off the bone , about 4 hours . 
1 (15 ounce) can cream of coconut 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12 ounce) can evaporated milk 1 cup coconut-flavored rum (such as Bacardi®) 1/4 cup water 1 scoop vanilla bean ice cream (optional) 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cinnamon sticks 2 whole cloves 1 pinch ground cinnamon (optional) 1 pinch ground nutmeg (optional)  | Place cream of coconut , condensed milk , evaporated milk , coconut rum , water , ice cream , and vanilla extract in a blender . Blend until smooth and well-combined , about 3 minutes . Pour coconut mixture into two 20-ounce glass bottles or jars . Add 1 cinnamon stick and 1 clove to each container ; shake well . Chill coquito 8 hours to overnight . Shake container before pouring coquito into shot glasses or small cups . Sprinkle cinnamon or nutmeg on top before serving . 
4 cups coconut milk 1 1/2 cups coconut cream 1 1/2 cups evaporated milk 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1 cup milk 1 cup cornstarch 2/3 cup white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 teaspoon orange blossom water 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon lime zest 1 pinch ground cinnamon , or to taste  | Combine coconut milk , coconut cream , evaporated milk , cinnamon , nutmeg , and ginger in a large saucepan . Mix milk and cornstarch together in a bowl until dissolved ; stir into coconut milk mixture . Add sugar , vanilla extract , orange blossom water , salt , and lime zest to coconut milk mixture ; cook , stirring constantly , over medium heat until simmering and mixture begins to thicken , about 5 minutes . Lower heat to medium-low and cook until thickened , about 15 minutes . Remove saucepan from heat , pour mixture into a deep 9-inch cake pan , and cool to room temperature , about 30 minutes . Cover pan with plastic wrap and refrigerate until tembleque is chilled , at least 4 hours to overnight . Remove tembleque from refrigerator and allow to sit at room temperature , about 10 minutes . Dip bottom of pan in a bowl of warm water for 1 minute . Carefully separate tembleque from pan by running a thin knife around the edges . Place a serving dish on top of pan and invert tembleque onto dish ; garnish with cinnamon . 
1 onion , chopped 1/2 pound shredded Cheddar cheese 2 pounds swai fish 1 teaspoon butter 1 cup milk 1 1/2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon mustard 1 teaspoon salt ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish . Mix onion and Cheddar cheese together in a bowl . Sprinkle 1/2 of the cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish ; top with swai fish . Sprinkle the remaining cheese mixture over fish . Whisk milk , Worcestershire sauce , mustard , salt , and black pepper together in a bowl ; pour over fish . Bake in the preheated oven until fish flakes easily with a fork and the cheese is melted , about 45 minutes . 
3 cups white sugar 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon baking powder 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 pinch ground cinnamon 1 pinch freshly grated nutmeg , or more to taste 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 1 (14 ounce) can water 1 (12 fluid ounce) can water 1/4 cup butter , melted 1 egg , slightly beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish . Whisk sugar , flour , cornmeal , baking powder , cornstarch , cinnamon , and nutmeg together in a bowl . Add coconut milk and evaporated milk ; fill empty cans with water (totaling 26 fluid ounces) and add to mixture . Mix butter , egg , and vanilla extract into mixture and beat with an electric mixer until well mixed ; pour into the prepared dish . Bake in the preheated oven until cornbread is cooked through and set , 1 hour 30 minutes . 
2 cups chopped seedless watermelon 1 cup chopped scallions 1 cup chopped fresh pineapple 1 cup chopped fresh mango 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 4 teaspoons fresh lime juice salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Toss watermelon , scallions , pineapple , mango , cilantro , and lime juice together in a bowl ; season with salt and pepper . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (3 pound) boneless pork sirloin roast (trimmed and tied with kitchen twine , if necessary) 1 cup orange juice 4 limes , juiced 4 cloves garlic , crushed and divided 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons coarse salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Use a sharp knife to poke 3 to 5 holes into the pork roast . Stuff about half the garlic into the holes . Cook roast in hot oil to brown completely , about 3 minutes per side . Transfer roast to the crock of a slow cooker . Blend orange juice , lime juice , remaining garlic , cumin , salt , and oregano in a blender until smooth ; pour over the pork . Leave the pork marinating in the orange juice mixture for 10 minutes ; turn roast and let other side marinate for 10 minutes . Turn slow cooker to Low and cook for 8 hours . Remove pork to a cutting board . Shred meat using 2 forks . Drain liquid from the slow cooker crock , reserving 1 cup . Return shredded pork to the slow cooker crock , pour reserved liquid over the meat and stir . Look on Low until the meat is again hot , 15 to 20 minutes . 
4 cloves garlic 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground coriander 3 tablespoons lime juice 3 tablespoons orange juice 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons white wine vinegar 1 (4 pound) pork shoulder roast  | Grind garlic , salt , black pepper , cumin , oregano , and coriander into a paste using a mortar and pestle . Transfer half of the garlic and spice paste to a bowl ; add lime juice , orange juice , olive oil , and vinegar . Beat the mixture with a whisk until smooth . Cut several inch-long , deep slits into the fatty side of the pork roast . Rub the reserved garlic paste into the slits . Put rubbed roast into a gallon-size resealable plastic bag . Pour the liquid mixture over the roast , squeeze as much air from the bag as possible and seal ; refrigerate , turning occasionally , 8 hours to overnight . Remove pork roast from refrigerator , put into a roasting pan , and let warm at room temperature for 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Roast pork in preheated oven for 30 minutes , reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) , and continue cooking until pork is no longer pink in the center , about 2 hours more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 170 degrees F (75 degrees C) . 
1/4 cup olive oil , divided 1 1/2 pounds boneless country-style pork ribs , cut into small pieces 1 cup dry white wine , divided 2 cups water 10 cloves garlic , minced , divided 2 tablespoons tomato paste , divided 2 cubes beef bouillon (such as Knorr®) 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 links Spanish chorizo sausage (such as Goya®) , thinly sliced 1 yellow onion , diced 1 small green bell pepper , chopped 1/2 cup pimento-stuffed green olives 4 cups frozen corn , thawed 1 1/2 cups masa harina 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon white vinegar 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1 (8 ounce) package dried corn husks , soaked in warm water kitchen twine , cut into 12-inch lengths  | Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in large saucepan or Dutch oven over medium-high heat . Cook and stir pork in hot oil until lightly browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Pour 1/2 cup white wine into saucepan and bring to a boil while scraping the browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Stir 2 cups water , 5 cloves garlic , 1 tablespoon tomato paste , 1 beef bouillon cube , bay leaves , cumin , oregano , and black pepper to pork mixture . Bring mixture to a boil , reduce heat to low , partially cover the saucepan with a lid , and simmer until pork is very tender , 1 to 2 hours . Transfer pork to a bowl and reserve cooking liquid . Heat remaining olive oil in a deep pot over medium-high heat . Cook and stir chorizo and cooked pork in hot oil until lightly browned , 3 to 5 minutes . Stir onion , green pepper , and remaining minced garlic into chorizo mixture ; saute until vegetables soften and onion is translucent , about 5 minutes . Add remaining white wine , olives , 1 tablespoon tomato paste , and remaining bouillon cube ; cook , stirring frequently , until flavors combine , about 5 minutes more . Pulse corn and 1 1/2 cups reserved pork broth together in a blender or food processor until mixture has a thick and chunky consistency . Stir corn mixture into pork-chorizo mixture . Reduce heat to medium and stir masa harina , sugar , vinegar , and salt into pork mixture ; cook , stirring occasionally , until mixture has a hearty cornmeal porridge-consistency . Season with salt and remove from heat . Make a pocket out of one corn husk and fill 3/4 full with pork mixture , leaving a top flap . Wrap another husk around the filled pocket . Fold top flap over the pocket . Tie twine length- and width-wise around the tamale several times so that packet is secure , but has room for filling to expand during cooking . Repeat with remaining husks and filling . Fill a pot with 2-inches of water ; bring to a simmer . Place tamales upright in simmering water , cover the pot , and cook , adding water as necessary , until filling is hot and set , about 40 minutes . Cool tamales until completely set , at least 3 hours . 
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 1/2 cups thinly sliced white onions 2 tablespoons minced garlic 4 cups seeded , chopped plum tomatoes 1 1/2 cups dry white wine 2/3 cup sliced stuffed green olives 1/4 cup drained capers 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes 4 (6 ounce) fillets sea bass 2 tablespoons butter 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute onions until soft . Stir in garlic , and saute about 1 minute . Add tomatoes , and cook until they begin to soften . Stir in wine , olives , capers , and red pepper flakes . Heat to a simmer . Place sea bass into sauce . Cover , and gently simmer for 10 to 12 minutes , or until fish flakes easily with a fork . Transfer fish to a serving plate , and keep warm . Increase the heat , and add butter to sauce . Simmer until the sauce thickens . Stir in cilantro . Serve sauce over fish . 
3 tablespoons garlic powder 2 1/2 tablespoons salt 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric  | Whisk garlic powder , salt , black pepper , oregano , and turmeric together in a bowl . Store in an airtight container . 
3 tablespoons onion powder 3 tablespoons dried thyme 3 tablespoons ground allspice 3 tablespoons cracked black pepper 2 tablespoons turbinado sugar 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 1/2 tablespoons sea salt 1 tablespoon ground ginger 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon ground nutmeg 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon dried marjoram (optional) 1 tablespoon dried sage (optional) 1 tablespoon dried rosemary (optional)  | Whisk onion powder , thyme , allspice , black pepper , turbinado sugar , garlic powder , sea salt , ginger , cinnamon , nutmeg , cayenne pepper , marjoram , sage , and rosemary together in a bowl . 
1 large onion , cut into rings 2 pounds flank steak , cut into thirds 2 (14 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with jalapeno peppers 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 1 bay leaf  | Spread a layer of onions in the bottom of a slow cooker , top with 1/2 of the steak . Spread another layer of onions over steak and pour 1 can of diced tomatoes over onions ; top with 1/2 of the garlic . Repeat layers with remaining onion , steak , tomatoes , and garlic . Gently pour beef broth over steak mixture and add bay leaf . Cook on Low for 8 to 10 hours . Shred beef and return to slow cooker ; stir mixture together until meat absorbs some of the broth , 5 to 10 minutes . 
1 (16 ounce) package gingersnap cookies , crumbled 3 ounces butter , melted 1/2 pint heavy whipping cream 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 3 lemons , zested and juiced  | Mix cookie crumbs and melted butter in a bowl until all crumbs are moistened ; press firmly into a single layer in the bottom of a baking dish . Refrigerate dish until the crust is set , at least 30 minutes . Beat cream in a chilled glass or metal bowl with an electric mixer until soft peaks form . Stir condensed milk into the cream until smooth and thick ; add lemon zest and juice and stir . Spread the creamy mixture over the cookie crust . Refrigerate until the cream layer is set , at least 30 minutes . 
2 (14 ounce) cans coconut milk 3/4 cup sugar 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1/2 cup cornstarch 1 pinch ground cinnamon  | Stir coconut milk , sugar , and salt together in a saucepan . Spoon a few tablespoons of the coconut milk mixture into a small bowl and stir cornstarch into the mixture to dissolve ; pour into the mixture in the saucepan . Bring the mixture to a boil while stirring constantly ; cook until smooth and thick , about 5 minutes . Pour the coconut milk mixture into molds , cover each with plastic wrap , and refrigerate until cold and firm , 3 hours to 2 days . Run a thin knife around the edges of the mold and invert onto a plate to remove putting . Garnish tops with cinnamon . 
Dressing : 1/2 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 teaspoon lime juice 1/2 carrot , shredded 1/2 cup shredded cabbage 4 slices Hass avocado  | Whisk olive oil and lime juice together in a bowl ; add carrots and cabbage and stir to coat . Gently fold avocado slices into salad . 
2 (12 fluid ounce) cans evaporated milk 2 cups white rum 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon ground nutmeg 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon , plus more for dusting 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 (14 ounce) can unsweetened coconut cream  | Blend evaporated milk , rum , cream of coconut , sweetened condensed milk , coconut milk , water , nutmeg , 1 teaspoon cinnamon , and vanilla extract in a blender at high speed until creamy , about 3 minutes ; pour into a glass pitcher . Refrigerate coquito until chilled , at least 20 minutes . Pour into glasses and dust with cinnamon . 
3 slices 1/4-inch-thick slices cucumber 8 leaves basil , or more to taste 2 lime slices 2 (1.5 fluid ounce) jiggers rum 2 raw sugar cubes ice cubes as desired 1 splash club soda (optional) 1 cucumber wedge for garnish 1 sprig fresh basil for garnish  | Put cucumbers , basil leaves , lime slices , rum , and raw sugar cubes into a metal cocktail shaker . Mash mixture together with a muddler until the sugar cubes have dissolved . Add ice , place lid onto the shaker , and shake vigorously ; strain into a chilled glass tumbler filled with ice . Top cocktail with club soda and garnish with cucumber wedge and basil sprig . 
1/4 cup curry powder , divided 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon seasoned salt 1 tablespoon onion powder 2 teaspoons salt 1 sprig fresh thyme , leaves stripped 1 pinch ground allspice , or more to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 1/4 pounds whole chicken , cut into pieces 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups water 1 potato , diced 1/2 cup chopped carrots 2 scallions (green onions) , chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , minced 1 Scotch bonnet chile pepper , chopped , or to taste  | Whisk 2 tablespoons curry powder , garlic powder , seasoned salt , onion powder , salt , thyme leaves , allspice , salt , and pepper together in a bowl . Add chicken and coat with curry mixture until curry mixture is wet and sticks to chicken . Heat oil and 2 tablespoons curry powder in a large cast-iron skillet over high heat until oil is hot and curry powder changes color , 2 to 3 minutes . Add chicken to the hot oil mixture and reduce heat to medium . Add water , potato , carrots , scallions , ginger , and chile pepper to skillet . Cover skillet and simmer until chicken is no longer pink in the center and gravy is thickened , allowing chicken to cook undisturbed for last 15 minutes of cooking , 30 to 40 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone , should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove chicken to a serving dish ; continue simmering gravy , uncovered , to thicken (if needed) . Serve chicken with gravy . 
1 pound dried black beans 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 large yellow onion , finely chopped 1 tablespoon smoked paprika 2 teaspoons cumin seeds 1 red bell pepper , diced 1 green bell pepper , diced 8 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons dried Mexican oregano , crushed between your fingers 2 bay leaves 6 cups vegetable stock 1 cup diced smoked tempeh bacon (such as Lightlife® Organic Smoky Tempeh Strips®) 2 tablespoons dark rum (optional) 1 jalapeño pepper , seeded and chopped 2 cups water 1 1/2 teaspoons salt salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 1/2 cup sliced hard-boiled eggs (optional) 1/2 cup finely chopped red onion  | Place black beans into a large container and cover with several inches of cool water ; let stand 8 hours to overnight . Drain beans and rinse with fresh water . Heat oil in a large Dutch oven or stockpot over medium heat ; cook and stir yellow onion , paprika , and cumin seeds until fragrant , about 3 minutes . Add red bell pepper , green bell pepper , garlic , oregano , and bay leaves ; cook and stir until onion is translucent and bell peppers are tender , 6 to 8 minutes . Mix vegetable stock , black beans , tempeh , rum , and jalapeno pepper into onion mixture . Increase heat to medium-high , bring to a simmer , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook until beans are tender , about 45 minutes . Pour water into bean mixture ; season with 1 1/2 teaspoons salt . Cook , stirring occasionally , until beans begin to fall apart and soup thickens , 30 to 40 minutes ; season with salt and pepper . Remove and discard bay leaves from soup . Ladle soup into bowls and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and red onion . 
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 2 fluid ounces rum 1 tablespoon brown sugar 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground clove 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 1 (3 pound) whole chicken 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . In a small bowl , combine the lime juice , rum , and brown sugar ; set aside . Mix together the cayenne pepper , clove , cinnamon , ginger , pepper , salt , and thyme leaves . Brush the chicken with oil , then coat with the spice mixture . Place in a roasting pan , and bake about 90 minutes , until the juices run clear or until a meat thermometer inserted in thickest part of the thigh reaches 180 degrees F . Baste the chicken with the sauce every 20 minutes while it's cooking . Allow chicken to rest for 10 minutes before carving . 
1 tablespoon avocado oil 2 pounds beef sirloin tip roast 1 (28 ounce) can fire-roasted diced tomatoes , drained 1 cup beef broth 2 onions , sliced 3 bell peppers , seeded and sliced into strips 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat avocado oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; cook beef roast in the hot oil until browned , about 4 minutes per side . Transfer roast to a slow cooker . Pour tomatoes and beef broth over roast ; add onions and bell peppers . Mix tomato paste , garlic , olive oil , vinegar , cumin , and salt together in a bowl ; pour over onions and bell peppers . Cook on High for 1 hour . Decrease heat to Low and cook until beef is tender enough to shred , about 8 hours . Remove beef from slow cooker and shred on a work surface using 2 forks . Return shredded beef to slow cooker ; add cilantro and stir . Cook on Low for 1 hour more . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 1 dash salt 1/4 cup margarine 1/4 cup shortening 1/3 cup water 2 tablespoons margarine 1 pound ground beef 1 small onion , finely diced 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1/2 cup beef broth 1/2 cup dry bread crumbs 1 egg , beaten  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a large bowl , combine flour , 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder , and pinch of salt . Cut in 1/4 cup margarine and shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs . Stir in water until mixture forms a ball . Shape dough into a log , and cut into 10 equal sections . Roll each section into a six inch circle (approximately 1/8 inch thick) . Set aside . Melt margarine in a skillet over medium heat . Saute onion until soft and translucent . Stir in ground beef . Season with 1 teaspoon curry powder , thyme , 1 teaspoon salt , and pepper . Cook until beef is evenly brown , stirring constantly . Stir in beef broth and bread crumbs . Simmer until liquid is absorbed . Remove from heat . Spoon equal amounts of filling into each pastry circle . Fold over and press edges together , making a half circle . Use a fork to press edges , and brush the top of each patty with beaten egg . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , or until golden brown . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 cup chopped onion 1 green bell pepper , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons tomato paste 1 (15.25 ounce) can kidney beans , drained with liquid reserved 1 cup uncooked white rice  | Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Saute onion , bell pepper and garlic . When onion is translucent add salt and tomato paste . Reduce heat to low and cook 2 minutes . Stir in the beans and rice . Pour the liquid from the beans into a large measuring cup and add enough water to reach a volume of 2 1/2 cups ; pour into beans . Cover and cook on low for 45 to 50 minutes , or until liquid is absorbed and rice is cooked . 
4 cloves garlic 1 large onion , quartered 2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano 1 tablespoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground ancho chile pepper 2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons ground black pepper olive oil 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar 1 (3 pound) boneless pork loin roast 1 lime , cut into wedges  | Place the garlic , onion , oregano , cumin , chile pepper , salt , and pepper into a blender . Pour in the olive oil and vinegar . Puree until smooth . Spread this mixture all over the pork loin , and place into a slow cooker . Cook on Low until the pork is fork tender , 6 to 8 hours . When ready , cut the pork into chunks , or shred ; garnish with lime wedges to serve . 
1 1/2 pounds sweet potatoes , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1 pound pork , cut into 1-inch squares 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 1/4 cup orange juice 1 1/2 tablespoons lime juice 2 cloves garlic , pressed 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro , or to taste  | Mix sweet potatoes , pork , diced tomatoes with green chile peppers , orange juice , lime juice , garlic , cumin , salt , and black pepper together in a slow cooker . Cook on Low for 6 hours . Garnish with cilantro . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 1/2 pounds sirloin tips , cubed 2 bay leaves 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 cup dry sherry 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1/4 cup pimento-stuffed green olives 1/4 cup raisins 2 tablespoons capers 4 potatoes , peeled and quartered salt and pepper to taste  | In a large saute pan , heat oil over medium heat . Cook onion and garlic in oil , stirring frequently , until transparent . Stir in cubed meat , and cook until browned . Stir in red bell pepper , bay leaf , cumin , and oregano ; cook for 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in sherry , tomato sauce , vinegar , olives , raisins , and capers . Pour in enough water to just cover meat . Bring to boil , reduce heat to low , and cover . Simmer until fork tender , about 1 1/2 hours . Add more water if the stew becomes too thick . Stir potatoes into the stew . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Cook , covered , until potatoes are almost tender . Uncover , and cook until done . 
1 (8 ounce) can canned tomato sauce 1/4 cup sofrito sauce 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 1 tablespoon adobo seasoning 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano salt to taste 2 pounds beef stew meat 2 cups peeled , cubed potatoes 1 cup water  | In a large pot , combine tomato sauce , sofrito sauce , sazon seasoning , adobo seasoning , oregano , and salt . Simmer over medium low heat for 5 minutes . Add meat , and cook until evenly browned . Stir in just enough water to cover meat . Cover , and simmer for about 1 hour . Add potatoes , and cook for about 30 minutes or until potatoes are tender . 
1 pound chicken drumsticks 1 tablespoon adobo seasoning 1/2 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 1/2 teaspoon salt 5 large red potatoes , peeled and thickly sliced 1 large red bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 large green bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 large onion , chopped 5 cloves garlic , minced 1 bunch fresh cilantro , chopped 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 cup dry red wine 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 2 fresh or dried bay leaves  | Wash the chicken and pat dry ; place into a large bowl . Season with adobo seasoning , sazon seasoning , and salt . Place the legs into a slow cooker , and cover with the potato slices . Puree the red pepper , green pepper , onion , garlic , cilantro , olive oil , wine , cumin , and oregano in a blender . Pour over the chicken and add the bay leaves . Cook on Low for 6 to 8 hours , until the chicken is easily removed from the bone . 
1 pound black beans , washed 1/4 cup olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 medium green bell pepper , chopped 6 cloves garlic , peeled and minced 5 cups water 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 (4 ounce) jar diced pimentos , drained 1 tablespoon vinegar 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon black pepper  | Place beans in a large saucepan with enough water to cover , and soak 8 hours , or overnight ; drain . Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat , and saute onion , green bell pepper , and garlic until tender . Into the onion mixture , stir the drained beans , water , tomato paste , pimentos , and vinegar . Season with salt , sugar , and pepper . Bring to a boil . Cover , reduce heat , and simmer 1 1/2 hours , stirring occasionally , until beans are tender . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup whole wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 2 ripe bananas , mashed 3 eggs 1/2 cup vegetable oil 1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce 1 cup packed brown sugar 1 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 2 1/2 cups grated zucchini 1 cup chopped walnuts 1/2 cup shredded coconut  | Preheat an oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease and flour 2 9x5-inch loaf pans . Whisk the all-purpose flour , whole wheat flour , salt , baking soda , baking powder , cinnamon , and nutmeg together in a bowl . Beat the bananas , eggs , vegetable oil , applesauce , brown sugar , white sugar , and vanilla together in a separate large bowl . Stir the flour mixture into the wet mixture . Fold the zucchini , walnuts , and coconut into the batter until evenly combined . Pour into the prepared pans . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , 40 to 50 minutes . Cool in the pans for 25 minutes before removing to cool completely on a wire rack . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 cup teriyaki marinade sauce 2 tomatoes , seeded and chopped 1/2 cup chopped onion 2 teaspoons minced jalapeno pepper 2 teaspoons chopped fresh cilantro 1/4 cup Dijon mustard 1/4 cup honey 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 tablespoons cider vinegar 1 1/2 teaspoons lime juice 3/4 pound mixed salad greens 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained 4 cups corn tortilla chips  | Place the chicken in a bowl , and cover with the teriyaki marinade sauce . Marinate at least 2 hours in the refrigerator . In a small bowl mix the tomatoes , onion , jalapeno pepper , and cilantro . Cover salsa , and refrigerate . In a small bowl , mix the mustard , honey , sugar , oil , vinegar , and lime juice . Cover dressing , and refrigerate . Preheat the grill for high heat . Lightly oil grill grate . Place chicken on the grill , and discard marinade . Cook for 6 to 8 minutes on each side , or until juices run clear . Arrange mixed salad greens on plates . Spoon some of the salsa over each salad , and sprinkle with 1/4 of the pineapple chunks . Break tortilla chips into large chunks , and sprinkle over salads . Lay some of the grilled chicken strips on each salad . Finally , drizzle dressing over each salad , and serve . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 clove garlic , crushed 2 teaspoons red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons chopped green onion (optional) salt to taste 4 (4 ounce) mahi mahi fillets 2 cups uncooked jasmine rice 2 cups water 1 cube chicken bouillon 1 tablespoon butter (optional) 3/4 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons butter 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 cups fresh mango , cubed  | Whisk together the olive oil , soy sauce , lemon juice , garlic , red pepper flakes , black pepper , ginger , green onion , and salt in a bowl . Add the mahi mahi and toss to evenly coat . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and marinate in the refrigerator for 1 hour . Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack in the middle of the oven . Bring the rice , water , chicken bouillon , and 1 tablespoon butter to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the liquid has been absorbed , about 20 minutes . Pour in the coconut milk and 2 tablespoons of sugar . Stir , and simmer uncovered until the rice has absorbed most of the coconut milk . While the rice is cooking , remove the mahi mahi from the marinade , and shake off excess . Discard the remaining marinade . Place fish in a large baking dish in a single layer . Broil in the preheated oven until the fish flakes easily with a fork , 10 to 15 minutes . If the fish browns too quickly , cover the baking dish with a sheet of aluminum foil . Melt 1 1/2 teaspoons butter and 1 1/2 tablespoons of sugar in a skillet over medium-high heat . When the mixture begins to bubble , stir in mango cubes . Cook and stir until mango is tender , about 5 minutes . Serve by placing a mahi mahi fillet over a scoop of hot rice and top with the mango salsa . 
4 sweet bread rolls 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1/4 cup prepared mustard 1 pound thinly sliced cooked ham 1 pound thinly sliced fully cooked pork 1 pound sliced Swiss cheese 1 cup dill pickle slices 2 tablespoons butter , melted  | Split the sandwich rolls in half , and spread mustard and mayonnaise liberally onto the cut sides . On each sandwich , place and equal amount of Swiss cheese , ham and pork in exactly that order . Place a few pickles onto each one , and put the top of the roll onto the sandwich . Brush the tops with melted butter . Press each sandwich in a sandwich press heated to medium-high heat . If a sandwich press is not available , use a large skillet over medium-high heat , and press the sandwiches down using a sturdy plate or skillet . Some indoor grills may be good for this also . Cook for 5 to 8 minutes , keeping sandwiches pressed . If using a skillet , you may want to flip them once for even browning . Slice diagonally and serve hot . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 limes , juiced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 2 pounds large cooked shrimp , peeled , tails on 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | In a large bowl combine oil , ginger , lime juice , garlic , soy sauce , sugar and red pepper ; mix well . Stir in shrimp and cilantro . Cover and refrigerate 1 to 4 hours before serving . Stir occasionally while chilling . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breasts 1 teaspoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 onions , chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped roasted garlic 1/2 (14 ounce) can coconut milk salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . In a large skillet , fry chicken breast in vegetable oil until the chicken just begins to brown . Stir onions , green bell peppers and red bell peppers into the skillet with the chicken . Saute until the onions are translucent . When the vegetables are translucent , stir in the garlic and coconut milk . Let the mixture cook 5 to 8 minutes before removing the skillet from the heat . Season with salt , pepper , and red pepper flakes . Transfer the mixture to a 9x13 inch baking dish and bake in a 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) oven for 45 minutes , or until the vegetables cook down and the chicken is tender . 
2 cups water 3 tablespoons white sugar , or more to taste 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups cornmeal , or as needed 3 cups vegetable oil for frying vegetable oil 1/2 cup mayonnaise , or to taste 1/4 cup ketchup 1 pinch garlic salt , or to taste (optional)  | Bring water to a boil in a saucepan and stir in sugar , butter , and salt until sugar has dissolved . Turn heat to low and whisk in 1 cup of cornmeal until smooth . Stir in remaining 1/2 cup cornmeal to make a very thick , workable dough . Heat 3 cups vegetable oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease your hands well with 2 teaspoons of oil and scoop about 3 tablespoons of cornmeal dough ; roll the dough into a ball , then shape into a 3-inch long stick about 1/2 inch wide . Repeat with remaining dough , oiling your hands as needed . Deep-fry the cornmeal sticks until golden brown , working in batches of 3 or 4 at a time . Drain fried cornmeal sticks on paper towels and keep warm . Mix mayonnaise , ketchup , and garlic salt in a bowl until well combined ; serve cornmeal sticks with the sauce for dipping . 
2 cups vegetable oil for frying 3 plantains , peeled and sliced into 1-inch pieces salt to taste garlic powder to taste  | Heat the oil in a heavy skillet over medium heat . Place a few plantain slices in the oil , and cook until lightly golden in color , about three minutes . Drain on paper towels . Repeat with the remaining slices . While the plantain slices are still warm , place them one at a time between two sheets of wax paper , and flatten by hand to 1/4 inch thick . Return flattened slices to the skillet , and continue frying until golden brown . Drain on paper towels , and season with salt and garlic powder . 
2 pounds cranberries 2 tablespoons orange zest 3 cinnamon sticks 1 pint orange juice 2 cups packed brown sugar 2 cups water  | Place the cranberries , grated orange rind , cinnamon , orange juice , brown sugar and enough water to cover cranberries in a saucepan . Bring mixture to a boil over high heat . Immediately turn heat down and simmer for about one hour or until the sauce has thickened . Taste for sweetness and adjust with additional sugar if necessary . You can not overcook , so continue cooking until you have a good thick consistency . Let mixture cool a bit then refrigerate in a covered container . 
2 teaspoons cumin seeds 1/2 teaspoon whole black peppercorns 4 cloves garlic , chopped 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/3 cup orange juice 1/3 cup dry sherry 3 tablespoons lemon juice 3 tablespoons fresh lime juice 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 pounds pork shoulder , trimmed and tied  | Heat a small , heavy skillet over medium heat . Add the cumin seeds and peppercorns to the pan ; stir constantly until fragrant and beginning to brown , about 2 minutes . Cool . Using a mortar and pestle , crush toasted spices with garlic , salt , and oregano to make a paste . You can also do this in the small bowl of a food processor . Transfer to a small bowl , and stir in orange juice , lime juice , lemon juice , sherry , and olive oil . Place the pork in a large resealable plastic bag . Pour citrus marinade over meat , and seal . Refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours , turning the bag over occasionally . Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Transfer pork and marinade to a roasting pan , and place in the oven . Roast for about 2 1/2 hours , basting with pan juices occasionally , or until an instant read thermometer inserted in the center reads 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . Add small amounts of water to the pan if it dries out . Transfer the pork to a carving board , cover loosely with foil , and let rest for 15 minutes . Carve , and serve . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (3 pound) chicken , cut into pieces 1 large onion , diced 6 cloves garlic , minced 4 large potatoes - peeled and cubed 2 tablespoons salt 1/4 cup Jamaican curry powder hot pepper sauce to taste  | Heat the oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Cook the chicken , onions , and garlic until the chicken has browned ; about 5 minutes . Stir in potatoes , salt , and curry powder ; add enough water to cover the chicken halfway . Cover , and simmer until tender , 30 to 40 minutes . Season to taste with hot pepper sauce . 
1 pound beef oxtail , cut into pieces 1 large onion , chopped 1 green onion , thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1 scotch bonnet chile pepper , chopped 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 sprig fresh thyme , chopped 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 1/2 cups water 1 cup canned fava beans , drained 1 teaspoon whole allspice berries 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons water  | Toss the oxtail with the onion , green onion , garlic , ginger , chile pepper , soy sauce , thyme , salt , and pepper . Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Brown the oxtail in the skillet until browned all over , about 10 minutes . Place into a pressure cooker , and pour in 1 1/2 cup water . Cook at pressure for 25 minutes , then remove from heat , and remove the lid according to manufacturer's directions . Add the fava beans and allspice berries , and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat . Dissolve the cornstarch in 2 tablespoons water , and stir into the simmering oxtail . Cook and stir a few minutes until the sauce has thickened , and the beans are tender . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple tidbits with juice 1/4 cup shredded coconut 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 teaspoon jerk seasoning mix 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes salt and ground black pepper to taste 4 ounces dry fettuccini noodles  | Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir chicken until no longer pink and juices run clear , 7 to 10 minutes . Stir in the pineapple and its juice , coconut , brown sugar , jerk seasoning , cinnamon , chili powder , red pepper flakes , salt and pepper . Reduce heat to low and simmer 15 minutes . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook until al dente , 8 to 10 minutes ; drain . Toss chicken mixture with drained pasta . 
5 tablespoons oil for frying 1 green plantain 3 cups cold water salt to taste  | Peel the plantain and cut it into 1-inch chunks . Heat the oil in a large skillet . Place the plantains in the oil and fry on both sides, ; approximately 3 1/2 minutes per side . Remove the plantains from the pan and flatten the plantains by placing a plate over the fried plantains and pressing down . Dip the plantains in water , then return them to the hot oil and fry 1 minute on each side . Salt to taste and serve immediately . 
3/4 cup water 1/3 cup lemon juice 1/3 cup chopped onion 1 tablespoon packed brown sugar 1 tablespoon chopped green onion 1 tablespoon canola oil 3/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 teaspoon ground allspice 3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 3/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme , crushed 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 6 lean pork chops , 1/2 inch thick  | Combine water , lemon juice , onion , brown sugar , green onions , oil , salt , allspice , cinnamon , black pepper , thyme , and cayenne pepper in a blender or food processor . Blend until smooth . Reserve 1/2 cup for basting . Place pork chops in shallow glass dish . Pour remaining marinade over the meat . Cover , and refrigerate at least 12 hours , but no longer than 24 hours . Preheat grill for medium heat . Place grate 4 to 5 inches above heat source . Oil the grill grate . Arrange chops on grate , and discard marinade . Cover grill , and cook chops for 10 minutes , turning once , or to desired doneness . 
1 1/2 pounds boneless pork chops 1 pint water to cover 1 lime , juiced 1 sprig fresh thyme 8 black peppercorns 1 tablespoon garlic powder , or to taste 1 tablespoon onion powder salt to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , halved and thinly sliced 3 cloves garlic , peeled and sliced 1 lime , juiced 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | In a large saucepan , combine water , juice of one lime , thyme sprig , peppercorns , garlic powder , onion powder and salt . Bring mixture to a boil . Add pork chops , reduce heat to medium-low and simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours , until meat is very tender . Add more water as necessary to keep chops covered . Turn off heat and let the chops rest in the broth for 30 minutes . Remove chops from broth and shred , removing excess fat ; set aside . In a large frying pan , heat olive oil over medium-high heat . Add the shredded pork and fry until it is almost crisp , about 5 minutes . Add the onion and garlic and continue to cook until the onion is just tender yet slightly crisp , about 10 minutes more . Add the juice of one lime , mix though and toss with cilantro . Serve and enjoy . 
8 cloves garlic , peeled 1/4 cup salt 1/4 cup black pepper 2 teaspoons chopped fresh oregano 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 (10 pound) pork picnic roast 4 yucca (cassava) roots , peeled and sliced  | Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place the garlic , salt , pepper , oregano , and olive oil into the container of a food processor or blender . Process until smooth . Use a small knife to make several incisions in the fresh ham . Insert the garlic paste into each one using a small spoon . Place the ham in a roaster , and cover . Bake for 1 1/2 hours in the preheated oven , then check every 15 minutes or so , until the internal temperature reaches 175 degrees F ( 80 degrees C) when taken with a meat thermometer . While the meat is roasting , place the yucca in a large pot of boiling water . Cook until fork tender , and drain . Serve with pork roast . 
15 habanero peppers 1 small mango - peeled , seeded , and cut into chunks 1 onion , roughly chopped 3 green onions , roughly chopped 2 cloves garlic , roughly chopped 1 1/2 cups distilled white vinegar 2 limes , juiced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 cup dry mustard powder 1 tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon grated lime zest  | Wearing disposable gloves , and being careful not to get any in your eyes or on your skin , roughly chop the habanero peppers . Place the habanero peppers , mango , onion , green onions , and garlic into a blender . Pour in the vinegar , lime juice , and vegetable oil , cover the blender , and pulse until the mixture is very finely chopped . Stop the blender , and add dry mustard powder , salt , curry powder , and lime zest . Blend again until the sauce is smooth . Pour into clean jars , and store in refrigerator . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 4 limes , juiced 1 cup water 2 teaspoons ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon brown sugar 2 teaspoons dried thyme 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 onions , chopped 1 1/2 cups chopped green onions 6 cloves garlic , chopped 2 habanero peppers , chopped  | Place chicken in a medium bowl . Cover with lime juice and water . Set aside . In a blender or food processor , place allspice , nutmeg , salt , brown sugar , thyme , ginger , black pepper and vegetable oil . Blend well , then mix in onions , green onions , garlic and habanero peppers until almost smooth . Pour most of the blended marinade mixture into bowl with chicken , reserving a small amount to use as a basting sauce while cooking . Cover , and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat . Brush grill grate with oil . Cook chicken slowly on the preheated grill . Turn frequently , basting often with remaining marinade mixture . Cook to desired doneness . 
1 (8 ounce) package dry kidney beans 4 tablespoons olive oil 1 bulb shallot , minced 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup uncooked long grain white rice 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon adobo seasoning (optional) 1 tablespoon kosher salt freshly ground black pepper to taste 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 3 sprigs fresh parsley 3 sprigs fresh thyme 1 scotch bonnet chile pepper  | Place beans in a large pot , and cover with 3 inches of water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer 1 1/2 hours , or until tender . Drain , reserving liquid . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute shallot and garlic until fragrant . Stir in cooked beans , and cook for 2 minutes . Measure reserved liquid , and add water to equal 5 cups ; stir into skillet . Stir in the uncooked rice . Season with bay leaves , adobo seasoning , salt , pepper , and cloves . Place sprigs of parsley and thyme , and scotch bonnet pepper on top , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer for 18 to 20 minutes . Remove thyme , parsley , and scotch bonnet pepper to serve . 
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut 3/4 cup crushed gingersnap cookies 3 tablespoons melted butter 2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 (10 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 2 eggs 1 tablespoon lime zest 2 tablespoons lime juice 1 tablespoon coconut extract 2 cups cubed fresh mango 1 teaspoon white sugar , or more to taste  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan . Combine the coconut , gingersnap cookies , and melted butter in a bowl ; mix until evenly moistened . Press the cookie mixture into the bottom and slightly up the sides of the prepared pan . Bake the crust in the preheated oven until browned and set , about 10 minutes . Set aside to cool . Reduce oven heat to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Beat the softened cream cheese in mixer bowl until smooth . With beater set to medium-low , slowly pour the condensed milk into the bowl , mixing only until just blended , stopping to scrape the sides of the bowl as necessary . Add the eggs , individually , allowing the first to blend into the mixture before adding the second ; again , scrape the sides of the bowl as necessary . Pour about half of the cream cheese batter into a separate bowl . Stir the lime juice and lime zest into the portion in the new bowl ; pour the batter over the crust in the springform pan , smoothing into an even layer . Stir the coconut extract through the remaining cream cheese batter ; pour over the lime-flavored batter in the springfom pan , smoothing into an even layer . Bake in the preheated oven until the top of the cheesecake springs back when gently pressed , about 45 minutes . Turn oven heat off , but leave cheesecake inside with oven door slightly ajar until the oven cools completely . Refrigerate until completely chilled . Prepare mango coulis by pureeing the mango with sugar until smooth . If too thick , add a teaspoon of water at a time , using just enough to make pourable . Drizzle over cheesecake when plated . 
1 onion , sliced 3 pounds pork tenderloin 3 tablespoons minced garlic 1/2 cup orange juice 3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1 lemon , juiced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon grill seasoning (such as Montreal Steak Seasoning®) 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground red pepper 3 bay leaves 2 tablespoons grated lemon peel  | Arrange onion slices in the bottom of a slow cooker ; top with pork tenderloin . Sprinkle garlic evenly over onion and pork . Pour orange juice , vinegar , and lemon juice over pork . Sprinkle cumin , grill seasoning , salt , red pepper , bay leaves , and lemon zest over pork . Cover and cook on Low until pork is very tender , 6 to 7 hours . To serve , slice tenderloin into 1 1/2-inch slices , arrange on a platter , and drizzle juices over top . 
1 large onion , chopped 6 cloves garlic , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 8 small whole peeled potatoes 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup dry white wine 1/2 tablespoon cumin 1 leaf fresh sage salt and pepper to taste 2 pounds chicken leg quarters  | In a medium bowl , combine onion , garlic , bell pepper , and potatoes . Stir in tomato sauce and wine ; season with cumin , sage leaf , and salt and pepper . Place chicken legs in slow cooker , and pour mixture over chicken . Cover , and cook on Low heat until juices run clear , about 6 to 8 hours . 
2 1/2 cups dry black beans 6 cups water 3 tablespoons olive oil 2 onions , chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 6 stalks celery , chopped , with leaves 2 cups water 8 cups chicken broth 1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup sherry 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup sour cream 1/4 cup chopped green onions  | In a medium-size stock pot , add dried black beans and 6 cups of water , cover and let soak overnight . In another large stock pot , heat olive oil and add onion , minced garlic and chopped celery . Saute until vegetables are softened . Drain and rinse soaked black beans . Add pre-soaked beans or drained and rinsed canned beans to vegetable mixture along with 2 cups water and broth . Bring to boil ; reduce heat and simmer . Add cayenne pepper and ground cumin . Partially cover the pot and simmer over low heat for 2 to 2 1/2 hours , or until beans are soft . Puree soup in batches in food processor or blender . Return pureed soup to stock pot and simmer . Add vinegar , sherry , soy sauce and pepper . Serve hot with a dollop of sour cream or yogurt and chopped green onions . 
1 pound black beans , washed 1 onion , chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 2 bay leaves 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 tablespoon dried oregano 2 minced hot green chile peppers 3 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  | In a large bowl , soak beans in water to cover overnight . Rinse beans , and transfer to a large stock pot . Add onion , bell peppers , bay leaves , paprika , cumin , oregano , and chile peppers , along with water to cover . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer for 1 1/2 hours . Test beans for tenderness , and when tender add garlic and balsamic vinegar . Salt and pepper to taste . 
1/3 cup olive oil 3 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 1 1/2 tablespoons lime juice 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 teaspoon dried thyme leaves 3/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/3 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 scotch bonnet chile pepper , minced 1/4 cup minced green onions with tops 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | In a large dish , mix the olive oil , vinegar , lime juice , sugar , thyme , allspice , cinnamon , salt , and cayenne pepper . Stir in the scotch bonnet pepper , green onions , and garlic . Pierce chicken on all sides with a fork , and place in the dish . Cover , and marinate up to 24 hours in the refrigerator , turning occasionally . Preheat the grill for high heat . Lightly oil grill grate . Discard marinade , and grill chicken 8 minutes on each side , or until juices run clear . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 2 stalks celery , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons fresh ginger root , minced 1 tablespoon turbinado sugar 2 teaspoons sea salt 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 2 potatoes , peeled and diced 4 cups chopped zucchini 6 cups vegetable stock 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 cup chopped fresh spinach 1/2 red bell pepper , minced  | Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat . Stir in onion , celery , garlic , ginger , and sugar . Cook 5 minutes , until onion is tender . Season with salt , turmeric , allspice , and nutmeg . Mix in potatoes and zucchini , and pour in the vegetable stock . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , and simmer 10 minutes , or until potatoes are tender . Remove soup from heat , season with cayenne pepper , and stir in spinach . Using a hand blender , blend soup until smooth . Garnish with red bell pepper to serve . 
1 teaspoon cumin seed 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1 fresh red chile pepper , chopped 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 5 teaspoons orange juice 5 teaspoons lemon juice 2 (8 ounce) boneless , skinless chicken breast halves 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 cup orange juice 1 teaspoon lime zest 1 teaspoon honey 1 teaspoon sweet soy sauce 1/4 cup cold , unsalted butter , cut into pieces 1/2 cup diced mango 1/2 avocado chopped fresh cilantro to taste chopped fresh parsley to taste  | Toast the cumin seeds in a dry skillet over medium-high heat until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Place the cumin seeds , garlic , chile pepper , salt , olive oil , orange juice , and lemon juice into the bowl of a blender ; grind to a coarse paste . Toss the chicken with the marinade , then place into the refrigerator , and allow to marinate for about 2 1/2 hours . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat a skillet over medium-high heat . Cook the chicken for 2 to 3 minutes on each side until browned . Place into the oven , and cook until the juices run clear , about 8 minutes . When the chicken is done , remove , cover with foil , and allow to rest for 3 to 5 minutes . While the chicken is in the oven , whisk together the olive oil , orange juice , lime zest , honey , and soy sauce in a skillet over medium-high heat . Simmer until the orange juice has reduced to 1/3 of original volume and is beginning to get thick and syrupy . Once thick , remove from heat , and whisk in the butter pieces one at a time until melted ; set aside . To serve , place chicken on the plate and sprinkle with mango and avocado . Drizzle with the sauce , and garnish with cilantro and parsley . 
2 1/2 pounds bone-in chicken pieces 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon sea salt 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 2 tablespoons white sugar 3 bok choy stalks , chopped  | Stir together the garlic powder , salt , cayenne pepper , and sazon seasoning in a shallow dish . Coat chicken pieces with this mixture . Heat a Dutch oven or heavy skillet with a lid over medium heat for at least 3 minutes . Sprinkle the sugar over the bottom of the pan , and stir gently until it becomes liquid and caramelizes . Add the chicken , cover , and cook for about 25 minutes . Remove cover , and cook for another 15 to 20 minutes , letting the juices cook down until they are almost gone . Add the bok choy , and cook just until wilted . 
2 cups butter 2 cups white sugar 9 eggs 1/4 cup white rum (optional) 1 tablespoon lime juice 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 tablespoon almond extract 1 grated zest of one lime 2 pounds chopped dried mixed fruit 2 cups red wine 1 cup dark molasses 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 pinch salt  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour 2 - 9 inch round cake pans . In a large bowl , cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy . Beat in eggs , then add rum , lime juice , vanilla , almond extract , and lime zest . Stir in mixed fruit , wine , and molasses . Sift together flour , baking powder , nutmeg , allspice , cinnamon , and salt . Fold into batter , being careful not to over-mix . Pour into prepared pans . Bake in preheated oven for 80 to 90 minutes , or until a knife inserted into the center comes out clean . Let cool in pan for 10 minutes , then turn out onto a wire rack and cool completely . 
1 1/2 pounds ground round 1 teaspoon olive oil 1 1/2 cups chopped onion 2 cloves garlic , crushed 2 1/2 cups chopped yellow bell pepper 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon hot paprika 1 tablespoon chile powder 2 teaspoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 (14.5 ounce) cans stewed tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1/3 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Place ground round in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain and set aside . Coat a large Dutch oven with cooking spray , and place over medium-high heat . When pan is hot , cook the onion and garlic in olive oil until the onion is tender . Add the yellow pepper , and cook until tender . Season with cumin , paprika , chile powder , sugar , salt , and cloves . Stir in the stewed tomatoes , kidney beans , black beans , and cannellini beans . Pour in water to cover . Bring to a boil , then stir in the meat and tomato paste . Bring to a boil , and simmer for 30 minutes . Remove from heat , stir in the vinegar and serve hot topped with fresh cilantro . 
2 tablespoons dried minced onion 2 1/2 teaspoons dried thyme 2 teaspoons ground allspice 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  | In a small bowl , stir together the dried onion , thyme , allspice , ground black pepper , cinnamon , cayenne pepper , and salt . Coat meat lightly with oil , then rub seasoning onto meat . 
1 cup butter 1 1/4 cups packed brown sugar 4 eggs 1/4 cup grated fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 cup milk 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 4 teaspoons ground ginger 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar for dusting  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 9 inch Bundt pan . Sift together the flour , baking powder , ground ginger , cinnamon and salt . Set aside . In a large bowl , cream together the butter and brown sugar until light and fluffy . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the grated ginger root and vanilla . Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the milk , mixing just until incorporated . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake in the preheated oven for 45 to 50 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean . Let cool in pan for 10 minutes , then turn out onto a serving plate . Dust lightly with confectioners' sugar before serving . 
6 cloves garlic , coarsely chopped 1/2 cup minced yellow onion 1 cup freshly squeezed orange juice 1/2 cup freshly squeezed lime juice 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano flakes 1/2 teaspoon lemon-pepper seasoning 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce (e.g . Tabasco™) (optional) 1 cup olive oil  | Pulse the garlic and onion in a blender until very finely chopped . Pour in orange juice , lime juice ; season with cumin , oregano , lemon-pepper , black pepper , salt , cilantro , and hot pepper sauce . Blend until thoroughly incorporated . Pour in the olive oil , and blend until smooth . 
2 cups brown rice 4 cups water 1 1/2 pounds ground beef 2 tablespoons Cajun seasoning 1 onion , chopped 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans 1 (6 ounce) can chopped black olives , drained 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 3 sprigs fresh cilantro , chopped 1/4 teaspoon ground dried chipotle pepper (optional)  | Place rice and water in a saucepan over medium heat . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low and simmer for about 45 minutes , or until rice is tender . While the rice is cooking , brown the ground beef in a deep skillet or wok . Season with Cajun seasoning . When meat is almost done , add the onion , and cook until the meat is browned and the onion is translucent . Stir in the beans , olives , vinegar , and chipotle powder , if using . Mix well , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes over medium-low heat . Add the cilantro during the last 5 minutes of cooking . Serve hot over or mixed with rice . 
2 green bell peppers , seeded and chopped 1 red bell peppers , seeded and chopped 10 ajies dulces peppers , tops removed 3 medium tomatoes , chopped 4 onions , cut into large chunks 3 medium heads garlic , peeled 25 cilantro leaves with stems 25 leaves recao , or culantro 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon black pepper  | In a food processor , combine green peppers , red peppers ajies dulces , tomatoes , onions , and garlic . Add cilantro , recao , salt , and pepper . Process to the consistency of semi-chunky salsa (not watery) . Place in a ziplock freezer bag , and use as needed , or freeze in portions . 
3 pounds ground beef 1/2 onion , chopped 2 tablespoons garlic , minced 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 2 cups raisins 2 (8 ounce) jars green olives , drained and chopped 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 1/2 cup water 1/2 bunch cilantro  | Brown the ground beef in a Dutch oven or large pot over medium-high heat until crumbly and no longer pink , about 10 minutes . Pour off any excess grease , then stir in the onion and garlic ; cook for 2 minutes before adding the red pepper , green pepper , raisins , olives , tomato paste , water , and cilantro . Bring the mixture to a simmer , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer 10 minutes , or until the peppers have cooked to your liking . 
1/2 green onion , minced 1/4 cup orange juice 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon minced jalapeno peppers 1 tablespoon lime juice 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 1 (2 to 3 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces  | Combine green onions , orange juice , ginger , hot pepper , lemon or lime juice , soy sauce , garlic , allspice , cinnamon and cloves . Add chicken , and marinate for 8 hours . Prepare barbecue , medium heat . Cook chicken , and drizzle with left over marinade that has been boiled for 2 to 3 minutes . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 pound ground beef 1 1/2 cups chopped fresh cilantro 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (16 ounce) package egg roll wrappers 2 quarts vegetable oil for frying  | In a large , heavy saute pan , heat olive oil over medium heat . Add chopped garlic , onions , and bell pepper ; saute until soft . Add meat ; cook and stir until browned . Drain off excess fat . Stir in tomato sauce and cilantro . Simmer until cilantro wilts . Remove from heat , and cool until mixture can be handled . Wrap 2 to 3 tablespoons of meat in an egg roll wrapper to form a triangle . Repeat with remaining ingredients . Heat vegetable oil in a wok or deep fry pan to 360 degrees F (168 degrees C) . Fry patties in hot oil until golden brown . When done , transfer to plates lined with paper towels to drain . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 cups fresh okra , ends trimmed and halved lengthwise salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 lime , juiced  | Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the okra , salt , and pepper . Increase the heat to high ; cook and stir until the okra begins to brown , about 10 minutes . Pour the lime juice over the okra and continue cooking for 2 minutes . 
2 pounds beef sirloin steak , sliced thinly across the grain 1/2 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 pinch dried oregano 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 2 large white onions , sliced into rings 1/4 cup distilled white vinegar 1 cup beef stock 1 teaspoon salt  | In a large resealable bag , combine the steak , olive oil , garlic , oregano , sazon seasoning , onions , vinegar , beef stock , and salt . Seal and shake to mix . Refrigerate for at least 4 hours , or up to a couple of days . When you are ready to cook , dump the entire contents of the bag into a large deep skillet . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , cover and simmer until the beef is fork tender , about 40 minutes . 
1/2 yellow onion , chopped 1/2 cup green onions , sliced 6 cloves garlic 3 habanero peppers , seeded and chopped 2 tablespoons fresh thyme leaves 1 tablespoon kosher salt 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 2 teaspoons ground allspice 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1/3 cup lime juice 3 pounds chicken wing drumettes cooking spray  | Put yellow onion , green onions , garlic , habanero peppers , fresh thyme , kosher salt , black pepper , allspice , dried thyme , cinnamon , cumin , nutmeg , vegetable oil , soy sauce , brown sugar , and lime juice , respectively , in a blender and blend until marinade is completely smooth . Place chicken in a large bowl . Pour marinade over chicken and toss to coat completely . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 8 hours or overnight . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil and spray with cooking spray . Place chicken drumettes on prepared baking sheet and reserve marinade left in the bowl . Bake in the preheated oven for 25 minutes . Brush 1/2 the reserved marinade onto chicken and turn wings over . Bake for 15 minutes . Turn chicken and brush on remaining 1/2 the reserved marinade . Bake until tender and caramelized , 10 to 15 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Rest wings on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a serving platter . 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/8 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 cups whole milk  | Whisk together the cornstarch , salt , sugar , and cinnamon in a large saucepan . Stir in the milk to evenly blend ingredients , and set over medium-high heat . Continue whisking and cooking until custard reaches a thick consistency , 25 to 30 minutes . It is important to stir the entire time , or the custard can easily burn or clump . The custard will continue to thicken as it cools . Spoon into bowls to serve . 
2 pounds mahi mahi fillets 1/2 cup dark rum 1/2 cup fresh lime juice 2 onion , sliced into thin rings 1 lemon , sliced 2 teaspoons dried oregano 4 tablespoons butter ground black pepper to taste  | Arrange the fish fillets in an oven proof 9x13 glass baking dish . Pour the rum and lime juice over the fish and place a slice onion on each fillet . Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Remove fish from the refrigerator and pour off about 3/4 of the liquid . Leave the onion slices in the dish and place a thick slice of lemon on each fish fillet . Sprinkle with oregano and black pepper to taste . Place a pat of butter or margarine on each fillet . Bake , covered , at 350 degrees F (165 degrees C) for about 20 to 30 minutes or until fish flakes easily with a fork . Be careful not to over cook the fish or it will be dry . Serve with the cooked onion and lemon slices . 
1 (2 to 3 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 onions , chopped 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 1/2 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 pinch saffron salt to taste 2 cubes chicken bouillon 1 1/2 cups uncooked white rice 1 cup beer 1 (15 ounce) can peas , drained 1/2 red bell pepper , roasted and sliced  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Saute chicken until lightly browned ; remove from skillet and set aside . Saute onion , garlic and green bell pepper until soft ; stir in tomato sauce , saffron , salt and bouillon and return chicken pieces to skillet . Cook for 10 minutes , then add rice and reduce heat to low . Add beer and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes , stirring occasionally , until rice is tender . Finally , stir in peas with liquid and garnish with roasted red bell pepper . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1/4 cup tomato sauce 2 tablespoons sofrito sauce 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 2 cups cooked pinto beans , drained 1 1/2 cups water salt to taste  | Heat oil in a saucepan over low heat . Add tomato sauce , sofrito , sazon , and pepper . Cook , stirring for about 3 minutes . Stir in beans , water , and salt . Increase heat to medium , and cook for 15 minutes , or until sauce has thickened . 
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1/4 cup orange juice 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons Montreal-style steak seasoning 2 1/4 teaspoons lime juice 1 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano 1 1/2 pounds beef rib-eye steaks  | Place cumin seeds into a small skillet over medium heat ; stir constantly until seeds turn dark brown and smell toasted , about 1 minute . Immediately pour seeds into a bowl to stop the cooking . Mix cumin seeds with orange juice , vegetable oil , steak seasoning , lime juice , and oregano in a bowl . Place steaks into a large resealable plastic bag , pour orange juice marinade over the meat , and squeeze out air . Seal bag and turn it over several times to coat meat with marinade . Refrigerate at least 30 minutes , or longer for extra flavor . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat and lightly oil the grate . Remove steaks from marinade , shaking off any excess . Discard used marinade . Grill steaks on the preheated grill until seared on the outsides and still slightly pink in the centers , 6 to 8 minutes per side . An instant-read meat thermometer inserted sideways into the center of the thickest steak should read 145 degrees F (65 degrees C) . Let steaks rest for 3 minutes before slicing . 
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 2 tablespoons minced garlic 3 tablespoons lime juice 3 tablespoons orange juice 1 (6 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces  | Heat the olive oil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat until very hot . While the oil heats , mash the cumin , salt , oregano , and garlic together into a paste in a heat-proof bowl ; whisk the hot oil into the paste . Allow the mixture to cool slightly . Add the lime juice and orange juice ; stir . Place the chicken in a large sealable bag ; pour the marinade over the chicken and shake to assure an even coating . Refrigerate at least 4 hours , up to overnight . Preheat an oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Arrange the marinated chicken in a roasting pan . Bake the chicken in the preheated oven until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear , about 1 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 180 degrees F (82 degrees C) . 
1/2 green bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1/2 small white onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt , divided 1/8 cup olive oil 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 tablespoons achiote powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 2 pounds beef stew meat , cut into 1 inch cubes 2 white potatoes 1 cup white wine 4 cups water 6 cubes beef bouillon  | In a blender , combine green pepper , onion , garlic , 1/4 teaspoon cumin and salt . Pulse , while pouring 1/8 cup olive oil through top of blender . Blend until smooth ; set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in pressure cooker on medium heat . Saute green pepper mixture for 1 minute , then stir in achiote powder and 1 teaspoon cumin . Cook for 1 minute , then stir in tomato sauce . Return to a simmer , then add beef ; let simmer for 5 minutes . Stir in potatoes , then pour in wine and water . Drop in the bouillon cubes . Bring to a boil , and cook for 1 minute ; add water , if necessary , to cover . Cover with lid of pressure cooker . Following manufacturer's directions , cook under 15 pound pressure for about 30 to 45 minutes . 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter , softened 2 tablespoons cream cheese 1 cup white sugar 1 egg 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 cup mashed overripe bananas 1/2 cup milk 2 tablespoons dark rum , or rum flavoring 1/2 teaspoon lime zest 2 teaspoons lime juice 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/4 cup chopped toasted pecans 1/4 cup flaked coconut Topping 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons unsalted butter 2 teaspoons lime juice 2 teaspoons dark rum , or rum flavoring 2 tablespoons chopped toasted pecans 2 tablespoons flaked coconut  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease two 8x4 inch loaf pans . Beat together 2 tablespoons of softened butter and cream cheese in a large bowl until fluffy . Slowly beat in sugar until well incorporated . Add the egg and mix well . Sift together the flour , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a separate bowl . In a different bowl , mix together the bananas , milk , 2 tablespoons rum , lime zest , lime juice , and vanilla extract ; stir well . Pour 1/3 of the flour mixture into the butter and mix well . Mix in 1/2 of the mashed bananas . Continue with another 1/3 of the flour , followed by the remaining banana mixture , and finally the remaining flour . Fold in 1/4 cup pecans and 1/4 cup coconut flakes . Pour the mixture into the loaf pans , and bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , about one hour . When finished , cool for 10 minutes in the pan , remove , and finish cooling on a wire rack . After you take the banana bread out of the oven , prepare the topping by stirring together the brown sugar , remaining butter , lime juice , and 2 teaspoons of rum in a small saucepan over medium-high heat . Bring to a simmer stirring constantly ; cook until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is smooth , about one minute . Remove from heat , and stir in 2 tablespoons pecans , and 2 tablespoons coconut . Spoon this topping over the loaves while they are still warm . The topping will harden slightly when the loaf cools . 
6 cloves garlic , coarsely chopped 1/2 cup minced yellow onion 1 cup freshly squeezed orange juice 1/2 cup freshly squeezed lime juice 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano flakes 1/2 teaspoon lemon-pepper seasoning 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce (e.g . Tabasco™) (optional) 1 cup olive oil  | Pulse the garlic and onion in a blender until very finely chopped . Pour in orange juice , lime juice ; season with cumin , oregano , lemon-pepper , black pepper , salt , cilantro , and hot pepper sauce . Blend until thoroughly incorporated . Pour in the olive oil , and blend until smooth . 
4 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup minced shallots 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 green bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 1/2 cups tomato - peeled , seeded and chopped 2 teaspoons curry powder 1/2 teaspoon whole allspice berries 1/2 cup chicken stock 1/4 cup brandy-based orange liqueur (such as Grand Marnier®) 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon brown sugar 2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons chile paste 8 ounces rotini pasta 1 1/2 pounds medium shrimp - peeled and deveined 1/2 cup fresh cilantro , chopped  | In a small bowl , combine garlic , shallots , ginger and oil . In another small bowl , combine green pepper , tomato , curry powder , allspice , chicken stock , Grand Marnier , soy sauce , brown sugar , cornstarch , and chile paste . Cover and refrigerate both until ready to use . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat a large saute pan over high . When hot , add garlic-oil mixture . Saute until garlic begins to sizzle but has not browned . Stir the tomato mixture , then pour into the saute pan . Bring to a rapid boil and cook until it begins to thicken , about 3 minutes . Stir in the shrimp , and toss until they become pink , about 2 minutes . Immediately add the pasta . Stir and toss until well combined and pasta is heated through . Taste and adjust seasonings , especially salt . Transfer to a heated platter and sprinkle on the cilantro . Serve at once . 
1/2 cup olive oil 4 teaspoons crushed garlic 1 tablespoon salt 2 1/2 teaspoons black pepper  | In a blender or food processor , combine olive oil , garlic , salt , and pepper . Process for 3 to 5 minutes . 
For Crab Cakes : 3/4 pound crabmeat 1 cup plain bread crumbs 3/4 cup mayonnaise 1 egg , beaten 2 green onions , minced Hot sauce , to taste Salt and pepper , to taste For Mango Salsa : 1 mango , peeled , pitted and diced 1 red onion , diced 3 tablespoons chopped fresh basil 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 lime , juiced Minced jalapeno , to taste Salt and pepper , to taste 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  | Drain the crabmeat . In a large bowl , mix the crabmeat , bread crumbs , mayonnaise , egg , green onions , hot sauce , and salt and pepper until combined . Shape the mixture into 16 small cakes . Refrigerate for 30 minutes . Meanwhile , in a small bowl combine the diced mango , onion , basil , cilantro , lime juice , jalapeno (if using) , and salt and pepper . Refrigerate until ready to use . To grill : Preheat grill for medium heat and lightly oil the grate or a grill basket . Grill about 8 minutes , turning once . To pan-fry : Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook crab cake patties until crisp and golden brown on both sides , about 4 minutes per side . Top crab cakes with mango salsa and enjoy . 
2 1/4 cups water 1 1/2 cups short grain rice 1 (1/4 inch x 3 inch) strip lime peel 1/2 cup water 1 cinnamon stick 2 tablespoons anise seed , crushed 1 (12 ounce) can evaporated milk 1 (14 ounce) can condensed milk 1 tablespoon vanilla extract 1/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup raisins (optional)  | Combine 2 1/4 cups of water , rice , and lime peel in a saucepan . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes until the rice is tender . While the rice is cooking , combine 1/2 cup of water , the cinnamon stick , and anise in another saucepan over medium-high heat . Bring mixture to a low boil for 3 minutes , then remove saucepan from stove . Strain flavored water into a bowl and set aside , discarding cinnamon stick and anise pieces . After rice has simmered for 20 minutes , carefully remove the lime peel with a slotted spoon , and over low heat , gradually stir evaporated milk and condensed milk into the rice . Mix in the cinnamon and anise-flavored water , vanilla , and salt . Add raisins , if desired . Continue to stir until the mixture thickens , about 7 to 10 minutes . If the pudding is too watery after 10 minutes , turn up heat to medium-low and stir continuously . When pudding reaches desired consistency , remove from heat and pour into individual dishes , or a large bowl . Store in the refrigerator until ready to serve . 
1 (1 1/4 pound) pork tenderloin , cut crosswise into 8 slices 1 lime , zested and juiced 1 teaspoon olive oil 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 1 clove garlic , pressed  | Flatten the pork tenderloin slices slightly , and set aside . In a bowl , mix together the lime zest , olive oil , cumin , salt , crushed red pepper , and garlic . Reserve the lime juice . Rub the seasoning mixture onto both sides of the pork slices . Spray a heavy skillet or ridged grill pan with cooking spray , and place over medium heat . Pan-fry the pork slices until browned on both sides , 6 to 7 minutes per side . After you turn the meat over , pour the reserved lime juice over the meat and continue cooking until no longer pink in the center . Serve hot , topped with pan juices . 
1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 cups water 1 (20 ounce) can canned crushed pineapple , drained 1 (13.5 ounce) can coconut milk 1/4 cup lime juice  | Make a syrup by bringing the sugar and water to a boil in a small saucepan over high heat , stir and boil until the liquid becomes clear , about 1 minute . Set aside to cool . Blend the drained pineapple in a blender or food processor until very smooth and frothy . In a large bowl , whisk together the syrup , pineapple puree , coconut milk , and lime juice . Refrigerate until chilled , about 3 hours . Freeze in the freezer canister of an ice cream maker according to the manufacturer's directions . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 2 cups uncooked calrose rice , rinsed  | Bring vegetable oil , water , and salt to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Add rice , and cook until the water has just about cooked out ; stir . Reduce heat to medium-low . Cover , and cook for 20 to 25 minutes . Stir again , and serve . Rice may be a little sticky and may stick to bottom of pot . 
4 (4 ounce) cube steaks 2 eggs 3 cups dry bread crumbs 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground cumin salt and pepper to taste 1 lemon , sliced 2 cups vegetable oil for frying  | In a shallow dish , combine the breadcrumbs with the oregano , cumin , and salt and pepper . Beat eggs in another shallow dish . Dip each steak in beaten eggs , and then in the breadcrumb mixture . Make sure to cover each steak well with the breadcrumb mixture . In a large , deep skillet , heat 1inch oil over medium high heat . Place the steaks in the oil when it's hot (so that the breading will not stick to the pan) . Cook steaks , turning once , until brown for well done and golden brown for medium . Serve with lemon slices . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 teaspoons jerk paste 1 (12 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1 cup chicken stock 1 tablespoon jerk paste 1/2 cup dry white wine 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 2 limes , quartered salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream 4 sprigs fresh cilantro , for garnish  | Rub each breast half with 1/2 teaspoon jerk paste , and place in a shallow dish . Cover , and refrigerate at least 1 hour . Preheat the grill for high heat . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil , cook the egg noodles 6 to 8 minutes , until al dente , and drain . Lightly oil the grill grate . Grill chicken 8 to 10 minutes on each side , until juices run clear . Meanwhile , heat the olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat , and cook the garlic for one minute . Mix in the chicken stock , 1 tablespoon jerk paste , white wine , chopped cilantro , juice of 1 lime , salt , and pepper . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , and stir in the heavy cream . Cook and stir until mixture is thickened , about 5 minutes . Do not allow it to boil . Pour the cooked egg noodles into the saucepan , and toss with the cream sauce . Divide noodles onto 4 serving plates , and top with grilled chicken . Garnish each serving with a cilantro sprig and the juice of 1/4 lime . 
2 pounds yuca , peeled and sliced lengthwise 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup olive oil 1/2 onion , diced 4 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice  | Place the yuca into a pan and fill with enough water to cover . Stir in salt . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat , cover , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes . Drain , and place yucca on a serving plate . Meanwhile , place the olive oil , onion , garlic , and lemon juice into a pan . Cook over medium heat about 5 minutes . Pour the hot olive oil mixture over the yuca , and serve immediately . 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 cup unsalted butter - chilled , cut into tablespoon-size pieces 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lime zest 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 3 eggs 1/2 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Sift together the flour , baking powder and salt , set aside . In a medium bowl , cream together the sugar and butter . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the lime zest , nutmeg , cinnamon and allspice . Add the dry ingredients alternately with the milk , stirring after each addition . Pour batter into the prepared pan . Bake for 75 to 90 minutes in the preheated oven , until a toothpick inserted comes out clean . Cool in the pan for 10 minutes before turning out onto a rack to cool completely . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced , or more to taste 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 1 pound lean ground beef 6 large pitted green olives , quartered 1/2 cup raisins 1 tablespoon capers (optional) 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 (1.41 ounce) packages sazon seasoning (such as Goya®) 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon white sugar salt to taste  | Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir garlic , onion , and green bell pepper in the hot oil until softened , 5 to 7 minutes . Crumble ground beef into the skillet ; cook and stir until browned completely , 7 to 10 minutes . Stir olives , raisins , capers , tomato sauce , sazon seasoning , cumin , sugar , and salt through the ground beef mixture . Cover the skillet , reduce heat to low , and cook until the mixture is heated through , 5 to 10 minutes . 
4 cloves garlic 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground coriander 3 tablespoons lime juice 3 tablespoons orange juice 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 teaspoons white wine vinegar 1 (4 pound) pork shoulder roast  | Grind garlic , salt , black pepper , cumin , oregano , and coriander into a paste using a mortar and pestle . Transfer half of the garlic and spice paste to a bowl ; add lime juice , orange juice , olive oil , and vinegar . Beat the mixture with a whisk until smooth . Cut several inch-long , deep slits into the fatty side of the pork roast . Rub the reserved garlic paste into the slits . Put rubbed roast into a gallon-size resealable plastic bag . Pour the liquid mixture over the roast , squeeze as much air from the bag as possible and seal ; refrigerate , turning occasionally , 8 hours to overnight . Remove pork roast from refrigerator , put into a roasting pan , and let warm at room temperature for 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Roast pork in preheated oven for 30 minutes , reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) , and continue cooking until pork is no longer pink in the center , about 2 hours more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 170 degrees F (75 degrees C) . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 pound boneless pork roast , cubed 1 pound onions , diced 1 pound bananas , peeled and diced 1 (16 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice cayenne pepper to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and brown the pork on all sides . Mix in the onions , and cook and stir until tender . Mix the bananas and tomatoes with juice into the skillet . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium low , and simmer 30 minutes , stirring occasionally , until pork is very tender . Season with cayenne pepper , salt , and pepper . 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 cup unsalted butter - chilled , cut into tablespoon-size pieces 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lime zest 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 3 eggs 1/2 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Sift together the flour , baking powder and salt , set aside . In a medium bowl , cream together the sugar and butter . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the lime zest , nutmeg , cinnamon and allspice . Add the dry ingredients alternately with the milk , stirring after each addition . Pour batter into the prepared pan . Bake for 75 to 90 minutes in the preheated oven , until a toothpick inserted comes out clean . Cool in the pan for 10 minutes before turning out onto a rack to cool completely . 
1 1/4 pounds cooked deveined shelled shrimp , tail shells removed 3 avocados - peeled , pitted and diced 1 bunch green onion tops , chopped 3 large red tomatoes , diced 1 large yellow tomato , diced 1 bell pepper (any color) , chopped 1/2 bunch cilantro , chopped 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Cut the shrimp into 2 or 3 pieces and place in a large bowl ; add the avocado , green onion , red and yellow tomatoes , bell pepper , cilantro , and lime juice ; mix . Season with salt and pepper . Refrigerate at least 15 minutes before serving . 
1/2 cup water 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 cup dark rum 2 (15 ounce) cans coconut milk 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 pinch salt  | Pour the water , milk , rum , and coconut milk into a blender . Add the cinnamon and salt . Blend until well combined , then refrigerate for at least one hour , or until ready to serve . 
1/4 cup curry powder , divided 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon seasoned salt 1 tablespoon onion powder 2 teaspoons salt 1 sprig fresh thyme , leaves stripped 1 pinch ground allspice , or more to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 1/4 pounds whole chicken , cut into pieces 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups water 1 potato , diced 1/2 cup chopped carrots 2 scallions (green onions) , chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , minced 1 Scotch bonnet chile pepper , chopped , or to taste  | Whisk 2 tablespoons curry powder , garlic powder , seasoned salt , onion powder , salt , thyme leaves , allspice , salt , and pepper together in a bowl . Add chicken and coat with curry mixture until curry mixture is wet and sticks to chicken . Heat oil and 2 tablespoons curry powder in a large cast-iron skillet over high heat until oil is hot and curry powder changes color , 2 to 3 minutes . Add chicken to the hot oil mixture and reduce heat to medium . Add water , potato , carrots , scallions , ginger , and chile pepper to skillet . Cover skillet and simmer until chicken is no longer pink in the center and gravy is thickened , allowing chicken to cook undisturbed for last 15 minutes of cooking , 30 to 40 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone , should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove chicken to a serving dish ; continue simmering gravy , uncovered , to thicken (if needed) . Serve chicken with gravy . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 large onion , sliced 1/2 red apple , cored and sliced 1 pinch curry powder 1 cup water 2/3 cup brown rice 1 teaspoon dark molasses or treacle 1 small banana , sliced 1 tablespoon unsweetened flaked coconut  | Heat the oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Add the onion and red apple ; cook and stir until onion is transparent . Season with curry powder , and stir in the water . Add the rice and molasses , cover , and cook over low heat until the rice is tender , and water has been absorbed , about 30 minutes . Mix in the banana , then sprinkle the coconut on top . Heat through for a moment over low heat before serving . 
1 pound smoked sausage 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 1 medium onion , diced 2 (15.5 ounce) cans chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , undrained 1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce 3 tablespoons sherry wine or Marsala 2 teaspoons dried oregano 2 teaspoons red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 3 teaspoons adobo seasoning  | Slice sausage lengthwise , then cut into 1/4-inch slices . Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Brown sausage about 5 minutes . Stir in onion ; cook 5 minutes . Stir in chickpeas and juices , tomato sauce , and sherry . Season with oregano , red pepper flakes , black pepper , garlic powder , and adobo seasoning . Simmer , stirring occasionally , at least 10 minutes (1 hour or more is preferable) . 
2 1/2 pounds bone-in chicken pieces 2 tablespoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon sea salt 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 (.18 ounce) packet sazon seasoning 2 tablespoons white sugar 3 bok choy stalks , chopped  | Stir together the garlic powder , salt , cayenne pepper , and sazon seasoning in a shallow dish . Coat chicken pieces with this mixture . Heat a Dutch oven or heavy skillet with a lid over medium heat for at least 3 minutes . Sprinkle the sugar over the bottom of the pan , and stir gently until it becomes liquid and caramelizes . Add the chicken , cover , and cook for about 25 minutes . Remove cover , and cook for another 15 to 20 minutes , letting the juices cook down until they are almost gone . Add the bok choy , and cook just until wilted . 
6 green onions , chopped 1 onion , chopped 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 3/4 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup distilled white vinegar 1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | In a food processor or blender , combine the green onions , onion , jalapeno pepper , soy sauce , vinegar , vegetable oil , brown sugar , thyme , cloves , nutmeg and allspice . Mix for about 15 seconds . Place the chicken in a medium bowl , and coat with the marinade . Refrigerate for 4 to 6 hours , or overnight . Preheat grill for high heat . Lightly oil grill grate . Cook chicken on the prepared grill 6 to 8 minutes , until juices run clear . 
1 fluid ounce rum cream liqueur 1 fluid ounce coffee flavored liqueur 1 fluid ounce milk 1/2 fluid ounce strawberry flavored syrup 1/2 banana 1 cup crushed ice  | In a blender , combine rum cream liqueur , coffee liqueur , milk and strawberry syrup . Add the banana and crushed ice . Blend until smooth . Pour into glasses and serve . 
1 large red onion 3 cloves garlic 1 habanero pepper , seeded 1 tablespoon fresh ginger root 1/4 cup olive oil 1/4 cup brown sugar 3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 3 tablespoons orange juice concentrate , thawed 1 teaspoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/2 cup chopped cilantro 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper to taste 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | In a food processor , combine onion , garlic , habanero pepper , and ginger . Pulse until ingredients are minced . Blend in olive oil , brown sugar , vinegar , orange juice concentrate , soy sauce , cinnamon , nutmeg , cloves , cilantro , salt , and pepper . In a container , combine marinade with chicken . Cover , and refrigerate overnight . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat and lightly oil grate . Grill chicken for 10 minutes per side , or until no longer pink and juices run clear . 
3 tablespoons white sugar 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 3/4 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon margarine , melted 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour  | In a small bowl , dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water . Let stand until creamy , about 10 minutes . In a large bowl , combine the yeast mixture with the oil , margarine , salt and 1 1/2 cups flour ; stir well to combine . Mix in the remaining flour , 1/2 cup at a time , beating well after each addition . When the dough has pulled together , turn it out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and supple , about 8 minutes . Lightly oil a large bowl , place the dough in the bowl and turn to coat with oil . Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until doubled in volume , about 1 hour . Deflate the dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface and form into a loaf . Place the loaf into a lightly greased 9x5 inch loaf pan . Cover with a damp cloth and let rise for 15 minutes . Meanwhile , preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bake in preheated oven for about 30 minutes or until the top is golden brown and the bottom of the loaf sounds hollow when tapped . Cool in pan 5 minutes and then turn out onto rack and cool completely . 
1/3 cup lime juice 1/3 cup honey 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon vegetable oil 2 tablespoons Jamaican jerk seasoning 3 dashes hot pepper sauce salt and pepper to taste 2 pounds large shrimp , peeled and deveined 12 wooden skewers , soaked in water for 1 hour  | Stir together the lime juice , honey , soy sauce , and oil in a large bowl . Season with jerk seasoning , hot pepper sauce , salt , and pepper . Add the shrimp and toss well to coat . Cover , and refrigerate for one hour to marinate . Place wooden skewers to soak in warm water . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat . Remove skewers from the water , pat dry , and spray with nonstick cooking spray . Skewer the shrimp . Grill the shrimp on the grill on both sides until pink and opaque , about 5 minutes per side . 
Fritters : 1 quart oil for frying 3/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 egg 1/2 cup milk ground cayenne pepper to taste seasoned salt to taste salt and pepper to taste 1 cup chopped conch meat 1/2 onion , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 2 stalks celery , chopped 2 cloves garlic , chopped Dipping Sauce : 2 tablespoons ketchup 2 tablespoons lime juice 1 tablespoon mayonnaise 1 tablespoon hot sauce salt and pepper to taste  | Heat the oil in a large pot or deep fryer to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) . In a bowl , mix the flour , egg , and milk . Season with cayenne pepper , seasoned salt , salt , and pepper . Mix in the conch meat , onion , bell pepper , celery , and garlic . Drop the batter by rounded tablespoons into the hot oil , and fry until golden brown . Drain on paper towels . In a bowl , mix the ketchup , lime juice , mayonnaise , hot sauce , salt , and pepper . Serve dipping sauce on the side with the fritters . 
4 cups water 2 cups rice 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 1 bell pepper , chopped 2 carrots , peeled and chopped 2 ribs celery , chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans 2 smoked Spanish chorizo sausage links , coarsely chopped 1 cup chicken stock 1 (8 ounce) jar picante sauce 2 bay leaves 2 teaspoons smoked paprika 1 teaspoon red wine vinegar , or more to taste 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste 1 pinch red pepper flakes (optional)  | Bring water and rice to a boil in a saucepan . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Heat olive oil in a stockpot over medium-high heat ; saute onion , bell pepper , carrots , celery , and garlic in hot oil until tender , about 5 minutes . Mix black beans with liquid , chorizo , chicken stock , picante sauce , bay leaves , paprika , red wine vinegar , cumin , sugar , salt , black pepper , and red pepper flakes together in the pot with the onion mixture ; bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium-low , place a cover on the pot , and simmer until the beans have softened , about 30 minutes . Remove lid from pot and continue cooking until the mixture reaches your desired consistency , at least 20 minutes more . Remove bay leaves and adjust seasoning to your preferences . Serve over rice . 
15 habanero peppers 1 small mango - peeled , seeded , and cut into chunks 1 onion , roughly chopped 3 green onions , roughly chopped 2 cloves garlic , roughly chopped 1 1/2 cups distilled white vinegar 2 limes , juiced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 cup dry mustard powder 1 tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon grated lime zest  | Wearing disposable gloves , and being careful not to get any in your eyes or on your skin , roughly chop the habanero peppers . Place the habanero peppers , mango , onion , green onions , and garlic into a blender . Pour in the vinegar , lime juice , and vegetable oil , cover the blender , and pulse until the mixture is very finely chopped . Stop the blender , and add dry mustard powder , salt , curry powder , and lime zest . Blend again until the sauce is smooth . Pour into clean jars , and store in refrigerator . 
2 large strawberries , hulled 1/4 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 3/4 cup chilled lemon-lime soda 4 cubes ice  | In the container of a blender , combine the strawberries , sugar , lemon juice and lemon-lime soda . Add the ice and blend until smooth . Pour into a fancy glass to serve . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup cold water 1 cup vegetable oil for frying  | In a large bowl , stir together the flour , baking powder and salt . Rub in the butter until it is in pieces no larger than peas . Mix in water 1 tablespoon at a time just until the mixture is wet enough to form into a ball . The dough should be a firm consistency . Knead briefly . Heat the oil in a large heavy skillet over medium heat until hot . Break off pieces of the dough and shape into a patty - kind of like a flat biscuit . Place just enough of the dumplings in the pan so they are not crowded . Fry on each side until golden brown , about 3 minutes per side . Remove from the pan and drain on paper towels before serving . 
1 cup water 2 (3 inch) cinnamon sticks 15 whole cloves 1 teaspoon anise seed 2 tablespoons water 1/2 cup white sugar 1 (1 pound) loaf day-old bread 4 cups evaporated milk 4 eggs 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup butter , melted  | Bring 1 cup of water to a boil in a small saucepan over high heat . Add the cinnamon sticks , cloves , and anise seeds . Cover , and set aside to steep for 15 minutes . Meanwhile , combine 2 tablespoons water with 1/2 cup sugar in a saucepan over medium-high heat . Stir occasionally to dissolve the sugar completely , but stop stirring once the mixture comes to a boil . Stay near the stove to monitor the color , swirling the pan gently to redistribute the caramel as the sugar begins to darken . Cook to about 310 degrees F (160 degrees C) , or until the sugar turns light golden brown , then pour into a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Set aside to allow the caramel to harden . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Remove the crusts from the day-old bread , tear the bread into cubes , and place into a large mixing bowl . Strain the spice tea through a fine mesh sieve to remove the spices . Add to the bread along with the evaporated milk . Stir to evenly moisten , and set aside for 10 minutes . Whisk the eggs in a large mixing bowl along with 1 1/2 cups of sugar , the vanilla extract , salt , and melted butter . Stir in the moistened bread mixture until evenly mixed . Pour into the loaf pan over the caramel . Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel . Place the loaf pan on the towel , inside roasting pan , and place roasting pan on oven rack . Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the loaf pan . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , about 1 hour and 15 minutes . Cool in the pan for about an hour , then refrigerate until cold , 2 hours more . When ready , invert the budin onto a serving plate . The caramel will have turned to a syrup and will cover the budin like a sauce . 
1/4 cup honey mustard 2 tablespoons pineapple preserves 8 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 1/2 cups shredded Swiss cheese 2 tablespoons butter 2 cups chopped cooked chicken 1/2 cup cooked crumbled bacon 1 1/2 cups unsweetened pineapple tidbits , drained  | In a small bowl , stir together the honey mustard and pineapple preserves . Divide the mixture evenly between 4 of the tortillas . Spread evenly to within 1 inch of the edges . Distribute the Swiss cheese , chicken , bacon evenly over the pineapple mixture ; top with remaining tortillas to make quesadillas . Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) . Heat a large skillet over medium heat . Melt a small amount of the butter in the skillet , tilting the pan to cover the surface with butter . Place one of the quesadillas into the skillet , and fry on each side until lightly browned and the cheese has melted , about 1 1/2 minutes per side . Keep cooked quesadillas in a warm oven while you fry the remaining . To serve , cut each quesadilla into 6 wedges and arrange on a platter with pineapple tidbits in the center . 
1 tablespoon light brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1 teaspoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 cup uncooked white rice 1 1/2 cups water 1 (8 ounce) can sliced pineapple in juice , drained - divided 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon olive oil 1 pinch garlic salt 1 pinch ground black pepper  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Mix together the light brown sugar , 1 teaspoon of black pepper , thyme , cumin , 1 teaspoon of garlic salt , paprika , chili powder , and nutmeg in a bowl until thoroughly combined . Rub both sides of chicken breasts with the spice mixture , and place into a 9x9-inch baking dish . Sprinkle any remaining seasoning mix on top of chicken , if desired . Bake in the preheated oven until the chicken is lightly browned , no longer pink inside , and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes . An instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of a chicken breast should read at least 160 degrees F (70 degrees C) . While chicken is baking , bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Chop half the pineapple slices . Mix the chopped pineapple , cilantro , and olive oil into the cooked rice , and season to taste with a pinch or two of garlic salt and black pepper . Fluff the rice up with a fork , and transfer to a serving platter . Serve with the baked chicken , topped with remaining pineapple slices . 
4 turkey legs 1 cup olive oil 2 green bell peppers 1 large white onion 2 tablespoons salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 1 teaspoon dried oregano 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 5 slices bacon 2 tablespoons teriyaki sauce  | Make numerous vertical slits in the turkey legs . In a small bowl combine the olive oil with the salt , pepper , teriyaki , vinegar and oregano . Marinate turkey legs in the oil mixture . Cut onion , green pepper and bacon into small squares (approximately the same size as the slits you cut on the legs) . Fill each slit with one piece of pepper , onion and bacon . After the legs are stuffed , brown them in the oil mixture on medium-high . Reduce temperature to low and cover . Cook for 45 minutes or until meat starts to separate from the bone . If the legs dry out when cooking , add a little water to the skillet and lower the temperature . 
Fish Spice : 1 tablespoon paprika 2 teaspoons curry powder 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground coriander 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground fennel seed (optional) 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional) Mango Salsa : 1 mango - peeled , seeded and diced 1 cup chopped fresh pineapple 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1/2 cup black beans , rinsed and drained (optional) 1/2 red onion , finely chopped 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 3 tablespoons fresh lime juice 1 egg 1/3 cup milk 1 cup panko bread crumbs 1 tablespoon dried unsweetened coconut , or to taste (optional) 1 tablespoon olive oil , or as needed 5 (4 ounce) fillets tilapia  | Mix together the paprika , curry powder , cumin , allspice , ginger , coriander , salt , black pepper , fennel , and cayenne pepper in a bowl ; set the spice mix aside . In a bowl , lightly toss the mango , pineapple , red bell pepper , black beans , red onion , and cilantro in a bowl ; pour lime juice over the mango mixture , and toss again . Cover the bowl , and refrigerate until chilled , at least 30 minutes . Whisk together the egg and milk in a bowl . In a separate shallow bowl , stir the panko crumbs with coconut . Stir about 1 tablespoon of the spice mix , or to taste , into the panko crumb mixture . Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Dip tilapia fillets into the egg mixture , then press gently into the panko crumb mixture to coat both sides of fillets . Brush off any loose crumbs , then lay the fillets into the hot oil . Pan-fry until the fish is opaque inside and golden brown outside , 3 to 5 minutes per side or as needed . Serve with mango salsa . 
1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 pounds Brussels sprouts , trimmed and halved lengthwise 2 teaspoons garlic powder 1 tablespoon jerk seasoning 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 tablespoon brown sugar  | Melt butter with olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in Brussels sprouts , garlic powder , jerk seasoning , curry powder , and brown sugar . Cook and stir the Brussels sprouts , tossing them in the butter and seasonings , until tender , 5 to 10 minutes . 
1 tablespoon avocado oil 2 pounds beef sirloin tip roast 1 (28 ounce) can fire-roasted diced tomatoes , drained 1 cup beef broth 2 onions , sliced 3 bell peppers , seeded and sliced into strips 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat avocado oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; cook beef roast in the hot oil until browned , about 4 minutes per side . Transfer roast to a slow cooker . Pour tomatoes and beef broth over roast ; add onions and bell peppers . Mix tomato paste , garlic , olive oil , vinegar , cumin , and salt together in a bowl ; pour over onions and bell peppers . Cook on High for 1 hour . Decrease heat to Low and cook until beef is tender enough to shred , about 8 hours . Remove beef from slow cooker and shred on a work surface using 2 forks . Return shredded beef to slow cooker ; add cilantro and stir . Cook on Low for 1 hour more . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 green bell pepper , seeded and chopped 5 cloves garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano , crushed 2 bay leaves 2 tomatoes , chopped (optional) 3/4 cup canned tomato sauce  | Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Add onion and garlic , and cook until onion is translucent . Add the bell pepper , and saute until tender . Season with salt , pepper , cumin , oregano and bay leaves . Continue cooking until the mixture looks like a yummy green paste with oil around it . Stir in the tomatoes , if using , and cook stirring until all of the liquid is released . Gradually stir in the tomato sauce simmer until the sauce looks really red . Taste , and adjust seasonings if desired . Remove bay leaves . Now the sauce is done . You can add it to meat , rice , beans fish or potatoes . Thin the sauce down if necessary with water , wine , beer , or whatever is handy . 
3 tablespoons brown sugar 1 pound beef for stew , cut in 1 inch pieces 1 1/2 cups water 1 1/2 cups uncooked brown rice 1 cup coconut milk 2 cups fresh pigeon peas 1 cup chopped carrot 3 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh parsley  | Cook sugar in a large saucepan over medium heat until it begins to caramelize . Stir in the beef , and cook until well browned . Bring the water , coconut milk , rice , pigeon peas , and carrot to a simmer ; cover and cook until rice is done , about 25 minutes . Stir in parsley to garnish . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 small onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups water 1 (15.5 ounce) can black beans 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 beef bouillon cube 1 cup rice 1/2 teaspoon Creole seasoning , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon dried cilantro  | Heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir onion and garlic in hot oil until softened , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir water , black beans , cumin , and beef bouillon cube into the onion and garlic mixture ; bring to a boil , add rice , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and the moisture is absorbed , about 20 minutes . Gently stir Creole seasoning and cilantro into the beans and rice . 
2 cups water 3 tablespoons white sugar , or more to taste 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups cornmeal , or as needed 3 cups vegetable oil for frying vegetable oil 1/2 cup mayonnaise , or to taste 1/4 cup ketchup 1 pinch garlic salt , or to taste (optional)  | Bring water to a boil in a saucepan and stir in sugar , butter , and salt until sugar has dissolved . Turn heat to low and whisk in 1 cup of cornmeal until smooth . Stir in remaining 1/2 cup cornmeal to make a very thick , workable dough . Heat 3 cups vegetable oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease your hands well with 2 teaspoons of oil and scoop about 3 tablespoons of cornmeal dough ; roll the dough into a ball , then shape into a 3-inch long stick about 1/2 inch wide . Repeat with remaining dough , oiling your hands as needed . Deep-fry the cornmeal sticks until golden brown , working in batches of 3 or 4 at a time . Drain fried cornmeal sticks on paper towels and keep warm . Mix mayonnaise , ketchup , and garlic salt in a bowl until well combined ; serve cornmeal sticks with the sauce for dipping . 
1 (3 1/2) pound chicken , cut into 8 pieces Goya Adobo with Pepper , to taste 3 tablespoons Goya Extra Virgin Olive Oil 1 cup yellow onion , finely chopped 3/4 cup green bell pepper , finely chopped 1 1/2 teaspoons Goya Minced Garlic 1 1/2 cups Canilla Extra Long Grain Rice 1 packet Goya Powdered Chicken Bouillon 1 packet Sazon Goya with Azafran 1/4 cup Goya Pitted Alcaparrado , sliced 1 (4 ounce) jar Goya Fancy Sliced Pimientos 1/2 cup Goya Frozen Peas , thawed  | Using paper towels , pat chicken dry . Season chicken with Adobo . Heat oil in caldero , or large heavy pot over medium heat . Cook chicken , in batches , until brown on all sides , 7-10 minutes ; set aside . Stir onions , peppers and garlic into pot ; cook until soft , about 5 minutes . Add rice , bouillon and Sazon to pot ; cook , stirring constantly , until rice is completely coated in oil mixture , about 1 minute . Stir in 3 cups water ; bring to a boil . Add alcaparrado and chicken (skin-side up) to pot . Cover pot , reduce heat to low and simmer until water is absorbed , rice is tender and chicken is cooked through , about 25 minutes . To serve , using fork , fluff rice ; garnish with pimiento strips and peas . 
1 pound salted cod fish 4 potatoes , sliced thick 2 onions , sliced 4 hard-boiled eggs , sliced 2 teaspoons capers 2 large cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup pitted green olives 1 (4 ounce) jar roasted red bell peppers , drained 1/2 cup golden raisins 1 bay leaf 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil 1 cup water 1/4 cup white wine  | Soak the salted cod in about 2 quarts of water , changing the water 3 times over the course of 8 hours . Drain and cut the fish into bite-size pieces . Layer the half of each ingredient in the following order : potatoes , cod fish , onions , hard-boiled eggs , capers , garlic , olives , roasted red peppers , and raisins . Place the bay leaf on top , then pour half the tomato sauce and half the olive oil . Repeat with the remaining ingredients in the same order . Pour the water and white wine on top . Do not stir . Cover and bring to a boil over medium heat . Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until the potatoes are tender , about 30 minutes . 
2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 serving light adobo seasoning (such as Goya ®) 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 green bell pepper , diced 1 red bell pepper , diced 1 medium onion , diced 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 1/2 cups medium-grain rice 2 (14.5 ounce) cans diced tomatoes 6 cups low-sodium chicken broth 1 bay leaf 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste 1 cup frozen petite peas , thawed 1 cup sliced pimento-stuffed green olives 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Season chicken thighs with black pepper and adobo seasoning . Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Cook and stir green pepper , red pepper , onion , garlic , and tomato paste in the hot oil , until the vegetables have softened slightly , 3 to 4 minutes . Remove vegetables from the pot and set aside . Pan fry chicken in the pot until browned , 4 to 5 minutes on each side . Return cooked vegetables to the pot along with rice , diced tomatoes , chicken broth , bay leaf , and red pepper flakes . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until rice is tender and chicken is no longer pink inside , about 20 minutes . Stir in peas and olives and cook for another 5 minutes . Remove from heat and discard bay leaf . Stir in cilantro and serve . 
8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves paprika to taste seasoned salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 fresh pineapple - peeled , cored and cubed 1 orange , sliced 1 lemon , sliced 1 red bell pepper , diced 3 (6.8 ounce) packages Spanish-style rice mix 2 (11 ounce) cans black bean soup , undiluted  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium glass baking dish . Place the chicken breasts in the prepared baking dish , and season with paprika , seasoned salt , and pepper . Arrange the pineapple , orange , lemon , and red bell pepper around the chicken , reserving a few slices of each for serving . Bake chicken uncovered 20 minutes in the preheated oven . Turn , season again with paprika , seasoned salt , and pepper , and continue baking 10 minutes , or until chicken juices run clear . While chicken is baking , prepare the Spanish rice according to package directions and heat the undiluted black bean soup in a pot over medium heat . Serve each chicken breast and some of the cooked fruit and red bell pepper over equal portions of the Spanish rice , and topped with a few spoonfuls black bean soup . Arrange the reserved uncooked fruit and pepper slices around the rice . 
6 egg yolks 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 4 tablespoons vanilla extract 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 5 (12 fluid ounce) cans evaporated milk 1 (10 ounce) can unsweetened coconut milk 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco Lopez®) 4 1/4 cups light rum  | In a medium bowl , whisk egg yolks until smooth . Whisk in cinnamon and vanilla Stir in coconut milk , cream of coconut , sweetened condensed milk , evaporated milk , and rum . Taste and adjust cinnamon and vanilla if desired . Blend well and strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth . Pour into clean bottles . Serve chilled . 
1 cup uncooked long grain white rice 3 1/2 cups cold water 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Place the rice in a bowl with enough water to cover it and let it soak overnight . Strain the rice and discard the water . Stir the cold water and evaporated milk together . Place the drained rice into a blender along with half of the diluted milk . Blend until the rice is finely ground , about 30 seconds . Add the sugar , cinnamon , and vanilla ; blend well . Pour in the remaining diluted milk ; blend . Line a strainer with two layers of cheesecloth . Place the strainer over another bowl to catch the liquid . Strain the rice milk through the cheesecloth , discard the solids . Repeat the process if necessary . Serve over ice . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cut into chunks 1/2 cup dark rum 1/2 cup lemon juice 1/2 cup minced garlic 1/4 cup Worcestershire sauce 3 tablespoons garlic powder 1 teaspoon adobo seasoning 1 teaspoon onion powder 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground coriander 2 (.18 ounce) packets sazon with coriander and achiote 3 cups all-purpose flour 4 cups corn oil for frying  | Combine the chicken , rum , lemon juice , garlic , Worcestershire sauce , garlic powder , adobo seasoning , onion powder , pepper , coriander , and sazon seasoning in a bowl ; stir . Cover and allow to marinate in refrigerator 4 hours . Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat to about 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Spread the flour into the bottom of a shallow dish . Coat each piece of marinated chicken with flour . Fry the coated chicken pieces in the hot oil in small batches until no longer pink in the center and golden brown on the outside , 5 to 10 minutes . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (12 ounce) can chicken chunks , drained 1/2 cup chopped red bell pepper 1/2 cup raisins 1/2 cup stuffed green olives , sliced 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon ground oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 bay leaves  | Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir onion in hot oil until tender , about 5 minutes ; add garlic and continue to cook and stir until fragrant , about 1 minute more . Stir tomatoes , chicken , red bell pepper , raisins , olives , red wine vinegar , oregano , cumin , and bay leaves into the onion mixture ; cook until heated through , 5 to 7 minutes more . Remove and discard bay leaves before serving . 
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 3/4 cup white sugar 2 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 graham cracker crust , unbaked 1 1/4 cups mango nectar 1/3 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 cups ripe mangoes , peeled , pitted , and diced  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , mix 3/4 cup of sugar into the cream cheese . Mix in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the vanilla . Pour this batter into the graham cracker crust , and smooth over the top . Bake in preheated oven until the edges have puffed up but the middle still jiggles , about 30 minutes . Allow to cool for 30 minutes , then refrigerate until cold , about 3 hours . While the cheesecake is baking , pour 1 cup of the mango nectar and 1/3 cup of sugar into a saucepan , and bring to a boil over medium-high heat , dissolving the sugar . Dissolve the cornstarch in the remaining 1/4 cup of nectar , and stir into the boiling saucepan until thickened and clear , about 30 seconds . Place diced mango into a heatproof bowl , and toss with the thickened sauce . Allow to cool to room temperature , then pour over the cheesecake . Serve cold . 
1 (15.5 ounce) can Mexican-seasoned black beans 1 (14 ounce) can light coconut milk 1 (6 ounce) package frozen green peas 2 cups chicken stock or water 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice  | In a stock pot or large saucepan , combine the black beans , coconut milk , peas and stock or water . Bring to a boil , then simmer over low heat for 10 minutes . Pour into a blender and puree until smooth . Return to the pan and stir in the lime juice . 
