1 pound flank steak , cut into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup cornstarch 2 teaspoons olive oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon minced garlic 3 large green onions , sliced diagonally into 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 cup hoisin sauce  Place flank steak and cornstarch into a resealable plastic bag . Shake the bag to evenly coat the flank steak with the cornstarch . Allow to steak rest for 10 minutes . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir steak until evenly browned , 2 to 4 minutes . Place onion , garlic , flank steak , green onions , soy sauce , water , brown sugar , ginger , and hoisin sauce in a slow cooker . Cook on Low setting for about 4 hours . 
3 cups bread flour 1 1/4 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil salt and pepper to taste 1 bunch green onions , finely chopped 2 teaspoons vegetable oil  Use a fork to mix flour and boiling water in a large bowl . Knead dough into a ball . Cover bowl with plastic wrap ; let dough rest for 30 to 60 minutes . Evenly divide dough into 16 pieces . Roll each piece into a 1/4 inch thick circle . Brush each circle with oil , season with salt and pepper , and sprinkle with about 1 teaspoon of green onions . Roll up , cigar style , and pinch open ends together to form a circle . Roll each circle flat to 1/4 inch . Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a large skillet . Fry cakes until golden brown , about 2 minutes on each side . 
1 egg 1 tablespoon water 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 2 cups cooked white rice , cold 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup cooked , chopped chicken meat  In a small bowl , beat egg with water . Melt butter in a large skillet over medium low heat . Add egg and leave flat for 1 to 2 minutes . Remove from skillet and cut into shreds . Heat oil in same skillet ; add onion and saute until soft . Then add rice , soy sauce , pepper and chicken . Stir fry together for about 5 minutes , then stir in egg . Serve hot . 
1 pound pork butt , cut into 1 inch cubes 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 egg white 2 green onions , chopped 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 1/2 cup cornstarch 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 stalks celery , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 medium green bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces 1 medium onion , cut into wedges white sugar to taste salt to taste 1 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup white sugar 1/3 cup apple cider vinegar 1/4 cup ketchup 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , undrained 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/4 cup water  Place cubed pork in a medium bowl , and season with 1 teaspoon salt , 1/4 teaspoon sugar , and 1 teaspoon soy sauce . Mix in the egg white and green onions . Cover , and place in the refrigerator at least 1 hour . Heat 1 quart oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) in a large , heavy saucepan or deep fryer . Coat the pork with 1/2 cup cornstarch , and fry in the heated oil about 10 minutes , until evenly browned . Drain on paper towels . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a wok over medium heat . Stir in the celery , green bell pepper , and onion , and cook until tender . Season with salt and sugar . Remove from heat , and set aside . In a large saucepan , mix 1 cup water , 1/4 teaspoon salt , 3/4 cup sugar , apple cider vinegar , ketchup , and 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce . Bring to a boil , and stir in the cooked pork , celery mixture , and the pineapple chunks with juice . Return to boil , and mix in 2 tablespoons cornstarch and 1/4 cup water to thicken . Cook until well blended . 
4 cups vegetable oil for frying 1 egg 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into 1/2 inch cubes 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 pinch white pepper 1 cup cornstarch 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 tablespoons chopped green onion 1 clove garlic , minced 6 dried whole red chilies 1 strip orange zest 1/2 cup white sugar 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 3 tablespoons chicken broth 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons peanut oil 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/4 cup water  Heat 4 cups vegetable oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Beat the egg in a mixing bowl . Add the chicken cubes ; sprinkle with salt , 1 teaspoon sugar , and white pepper ; mix well . Mix in 1 cup of cornstarch a little bit at a time until the chicken cubes are well coated . In batches , carefully drop the chicken cubes into the hot oil one by one , cooking until they turns golden brown and begin to float , about 3 minutes . Remove the chicken and allow to cool as you fry the next batch . Once all of the chicken has been fried , refry the chicken , starting with the batch that was cooked first . Cook until the chicken turns deep golden brown , about 2 minutes more . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in the green onion , garlic , whole chiles , and orange zest . Cook and stir a minute or two until the garlic has turned golden and the chiles brighten . Add 1/2 cup sugar , the ginger , chicken broth , vinegar , soy sauce , sesame oil , and peanut oil ; bring to a boil and cook for 3 minutes . Dissolve 2 teaspoons of cornstarch into the water , and stir into the boiling sauce . Return to a boil and cook until the sauce thickens and is no longer cloudy from the cornstarch , about 1 minute . Stir the chicken into the boiling sauce . Reduce heat to low and cook for a few minutes until the chicken absorbs some of the sauce . 
1/3 cup oyster sauce 2 teaspoons Asian (toasted) sesame oil 1/3 cup sherry 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 3/4 pound beef round steak , cut into 1/8-inch thick strips 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , plus more if needed 1 thin slice of fresh ginger root 1 clove garlic , peeled and smashed 1 pound broccoli , cut into florets  Whisk together the oyster sauce , sesame oil , sherry , soy sauce , sugar , and cornstarch in a bowl , and stir until the sugar has dissolved . Place the steak pieces into a shallow bowl , pour the oyster sauce mixture over the meat , stir to coat well , and marinate for at least 30 minutes in refrigerator . Heat vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and stir in the ginger and garlic . Let them sizzle in the hot oil for about 1 minute to flavor the oil , then remove and discard . Stir in the broccoli , and toss and stir in the hot oil until bright green and almost tender , 5 to 7 minutes . Remove the broccoli from the wok , and set aside . Pour a little more oil into the wok , if needed , and stir and toss the beef with the marinade until the sauce forms a glaze on the beef , and the meat is no longer pink , about 5 minutes . Return the cooked broccoli to the wok , and stir until the meat and broccoli are heated through , about 3 minutes . 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil (optional) 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 (8 ounce) package dried rice noodles 1 head iceberg lettuce - rinsed , dried , and chopped 4 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and shredded 3 green onions , chopped 1 tablespoon sesame seeds , toasted  Prepare the dressing 30 minutes ahead of time by combining the brown sugar , soy sauce , sesame oil , salad oil , and rice vinegar in a salad dressing carafe . To prepare the Chinese rice noodles , heat a skillet with a few tablespoons of oil and break off a little bit of the noodles and add them to the skillet and fry them . They will puff up in the skillet , so only add a few at a time . As they begin to puff up , remove and drain them on paper towels . Be sure to cook long enough as the under cooked noodles will be like eating needles . Once cooked , add them to the salad mixture . In a large bowl combine the iceberg lettuce , cooked and shredded chicken , green onions and toasted sesame seeds . Let chill about 10 minutes , and just before serving add the cooked rice noodles . Serve in salad bowls and offer the dressing in a pourable container so your family can add as much dressing as they want . You can also pour the dressing over the top of the salad , toss , and serve immediately . 
1/4 cup soy sauce 4 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons honey 3 slices fresh ginger root 2 cloves garlic , crushed 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  In a small microwave-safe bowl , combine the soy sauce , oil , honey , ginger root , and garlic . Heat in microwave on medium for 1 minute , then stir . Heat again for 30 seconds , watching closely to prevent boiling . Place chicken breasts in a shallow dish . Pour soy sauce mixture over , and set aside to marinate for 15 minutes . Preheat a grill for medium-high heat . Drain marinade from chicken into a small saucepan . Bring to a boil , and simmer over medium heat for 5 minutes . Set aside for basting . Lightly oil the grill grate . Cook chicken on the prepared grill 6 to 8 minutes per side , or until juices run clear . Baste frequently with remaining marinade . Chicken will turn a beautiful golden brown . 
1 pound beef top sirloin steak 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons white sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 red onion , cut into 1-inch squares 1 green bell pepper , cut into 1-inch squares 2 tomatoes , cut into wedges  Slice the steak into 1/2-inch thick slices across the grain . Whisk together soy sauce , sugar , cornstarch , and ginger in a bowl until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is smooth . Place the steak slices into the marinade , and stir until well-coated . Heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and place 1/3 of the steak strips into the hot oil . Cook and stir until the beef is well-browned , about 3 minutes , and remove the beef from the wok to a bowl . Repeat twice more , with the remaining beef , and set the cooked beef aside . Return all the cooked beef to the hot wok , and stir in the onion . Toss the beef and onion together until the onion begins to soften , about 2 minutes , then stir in the green pepper . Cook and stir the mixture until the pepper has turned bright green and started to become tender , about 2 minutes , then add the tomatoes , stir everything together , and serve . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1/2 pound ground beef 1/2 small head cabbage , shredded 1 red bell pepper , cut into strips 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon ground black pepper  Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and add oil . Saute garlic for about 5 seconds , then add ground beef . Stir-fry until beef is evenly brown . Stir in cabbage and pepper , and cook until vegetables are tender , and beef is fully cooked . Stir in soy sauce . Mix together cornstarch and water , and stir in . Season with pepper . Cook , stirring , until sauce has thickened . 
1 cup water 2/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup walnuts 4 egg whites 2/3 cup mochiko (glutinous rice flour) 1/4 cup mayonnaise 1 pound large shrimp , peeled and deveined 2 tablespoons honey 1 tablespoon canned sweetened condensed milk 1 cup vegetable oil for frying  Stir together the water and sugar in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil and add the walnuts . Boil for 2 minutes , then drain and place walnuts on a cookie sheet to dry . Whip egg whites in a medium bowl until foamy . Stir in the mochiko until it has a pasty consistency . Heat the oil in a heavy deep skillet over medium-high heat . Dip shrimp into the mochiko batter , and then fry in the hot oil until golden brown , about 5 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels . In a medium serving bowl , stir together the mayonnaise , honey and sweetened condensed milk . Add shrimp and toss to coat with the sauce . Sprinkle the candied walnuts on top and serve . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons peanut butter 2 teaspoons brown sugar 3/4 teaspoon hot chile paste 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 3 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 16 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers , shredded 4 cups romaine lettuce - torn , washed and dried 2 cups shredded carrots 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  To prepare the dressing , whisk together the hoisin sauce , peanut butter , brown sugar , chili paste , ginger , vinegar , and sesame oil . Grill or broil the chicken breasts until cooked , about 10 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Cool and slice . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 C) . Spray a large shallow pan with nonstick vegetable spray ; arrange shredded wontons in a single layer and bake until golden brown , about 20 minutes . Cool . In a large bowl , combine the chicken , wontons , lettuce , carrots , green onions and cilantro . Toss with dressing and serve . 
1 pound ground pork 1 egg 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) (optional) 1 teaspoon salt 2 green onions , chopped and divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 head napa cabbage , cored and cut into chunks 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth 2 cups water , or as needed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil  Mix the ground pork , egg , cornstarch , 2 teaspoons of sesame oil , ginger , monosodium glutamate , salt , and half of the chopped green onions together in a bowl . Use your hands to mix until the ingredients are evenly distributed . Set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . When the oil is hot , fry the napa cabbage , stirring constantly , until cabbage begins to wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour in the chicken broth , water , and soy sauce . Bring to a boil , then lower the heat to medium . Use a spoon to form the meat mixture into 1 inch balls . Drop them into the boiling soup . When the last ball has been added , cover with a lid and simmer for 10 minutes . Taste , and adjust salt before serving . Garnish with remaining green onions and a drizzle of sesame oil . 
12 ounces boneless , skinless chicken breast halves , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 large onion , cut into rings 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 medium head bok choy , chopped 1 small head broccoli , chopped 1 tablespoon cornstarch , mixed with equal parts water  In a large bowl , combine chicken , oyster sauce and soy sauce . Set aside for 15 minutes . Heat oil in a wok or large heavy skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic and onion until soft and translucent . Increase heat to high . Add chicken and marinade , then stir-fry until light golden brown , about 10 minutes . Stir in water , pepper and sugar . Add bok choy and broccoli , and cook stirring until soft , about 10 minutes . Pour in the cornstarch mixture , and cook until sauce is thickened , about 5 minutes . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup cornstarch 2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup vegetable oil 4 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger root 1/2 cup chopped green onion 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup distilled white vinegar 1/2 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 cup oyster sauce 1/4 cup ketchup  Coat the chicken pieces with 1/4 cup of cornstarch ; set aside . Beat the eggs , salt , and pepper in a mixing bowl until smooth . Stir in the flour and baking powder until no large lumps remain . Mix in the chicken until evenly coated . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Drop in the chicken pieces ; cook until golden brown and no longer pink on the inside , about 12 minutes . Set the chicken aside ; keep warm . Reduce the heat to medium-high and stir in the sesame oil , ginger , and green onion . Cook and stir until the onion is limp and the ginger begins to brown , about 1 minute . Pour in the water , vinegar , and sugar ; bring to a boil . Dissolve the cornstarch in the soy sauce and add to the simmering vinegar along with the oyster sauce and ketchup . Stir until the sauce has thickened and is no longer cloudy . Stir in the chicken and simmer until hot . 
1/2 pound boneless pork loin , coarsely chopped 2 ounces peeled shrimp , finely chopped 1 teaspoon brown sugar 1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine 1 tablespoon light soy sauce 1 teaspoon finely chopped green onion 1 teaspoon chopped fresh ginger root 24 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers 3 cups chicken stock 1/8 cup finely chopped green onion  In a large bowl , combine pork , shrimp , sugar , wine , soy sauce , 1 teaspoon chopped green onion and ginger . Blend well , and let stand for 25 to 30 minutes . Place about one teaspoon of the filling at the center of each wonton skin . Moisten all 4 edges of wonton wrapper with water , then pull the top corner down to the bottom , folding the wrapper over the filling to make a triangle . Press edges firmly to make a seal . Bring left and right corners together above the filling . Overlap the tips of these corners , moisten with water and press together . Continue until all wrappers are used . FOR SOUP : Bring the chicken stock to a rolling boil . Drop wontons in , and cook for 5 minutes . Garnish with chopped green onion , and serve . 
1/2 tablespoon sesame oil 1 onion 1 1/2 pounds cooked , cubed chicken meat 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 large carrots , diced 2 stalks celery , chopped 1 large red bell pepper , diced 3/4 cup fresh pea pods , halved 1/2 large green bell pepper , diced 6 cups cooked white rice 2 eggs 1/3 cup soy sauce  Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and saute until soft , then add chicken and 2 tablespoons soy sauce and stir-fry for 5 to 6 minutes . Stir in carrots , celery , red bell pepper , pea pods and green bell pepper and stir-fry another 5 minutes . Then add rice and stir thoroughly . Finally , stir in scrambled eggs and 1/3 cup soy sauce , heat through and serve hot . 
6 thick cut pork chops (1 inch) 1/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup ketchup 1 clove garlic , crushed salt and pepper to taste  Trim excess fat from pork chops and place in slow cooker . Mix brown sugar , ginger , soy sauce , ketchup , garlic , salt and pepper in small bowl and pour over meat . Cover , turn to low and cook 4 to 6 hours , or until tender . Season with salt and pepper , if needed . 
2 long Chinese eggplants , cubed 1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 green chile pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon chili oil , or to taste 2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  Place the eggplant cubes into a large bowl , and sprinkle with salt . Fill with enough water to cover , and let stand for 30 minutes . Rinse well , and drain on paper towels . In a small bowl , stir together the soy sauce , red wine vinegar , sugar , chile pepper , cornstarch and chili oil . Set the sauce aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Fry the eggplant until it is tender and begins to brown , 5 to 10 minutes . Pour in the sauce , and cook and stir until the sauce is thick and the eggplant is evenly coated . Serve immediately . 
1 teaspoon sesame seeds 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound beef round steak , cut into thin strips 3/4 cup water 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 2 carrots , thinly sliced 1 bunch green onions , cut into 2 inch pieces  In a dry skillet over medium heat , toast sesame seeds for 1 to2 minutes , or until the seeds begin to turn golden brown ; set aside . In a medium bowl , mix together 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon cornstarch , and minced garlic . Stir in beef strips . Let stand for at least 10 minutes . In a separate small bowl , mix together water , 2 tablespoons soy sauce , 2 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch , sugar , sesame seeds , and red pepper flakes ; set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a wok or skillet over high heat . Cook and stir beef in hot oil for 1 minute ; remove , and set aside . Heat remaining tablespoon of oil in the same pan . Saute carrots and white part of green onions for 2 minutes . Stir in green parts of the green onion , and saute for 1 minute . Stir in sesame seed mixture and beef . Cook and stir until sauce boils and thickens . 
1/2 pound ground pork 1/2 medium head cabbage , finely chopped 1 green onion , finely chopped 2 slices fresh ginger root , finely chopped 2 water chestnuts , drained and finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1 (14 ounce) package wonton wrappers 5 tablespoons vegetable oil 3/4 cup water 1 tablespoon chili oil 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon rice vinegar  Crumble pork into a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain and set aside . In a medium bowl , mix together the pork , cabbage , green onion , ginger , water chestnuts , salt , sugar and sesame oil . Chill in the refrigerator 6 to 8 hours , or overnight . Place a tablespoon of the pork mixture into each of the wonton wrappers . Fold the wrappers , and seal the edges with a moistened fork . In a large , deep skillet , heat 3 tablespoons vegetable oil over medium high heat . Place the pot stickers into the oil seam sides up . Heat 30 seconds to a minute . Pour water into the skillet . Gently boil 7 to 8 minutes , until oil and water begins to sizzle , then add remaining oil . When the bottoms begin to brown , remove pot stickers from heat . In a small serving bowl , mix together the chili oil , soy sauce , and vinegar , adjusting proportions to taste . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 tablespoons brown sugar 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 large red onion , chopped ground black pepper to taste 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 2 leeks , chopped 1 small carrot , chopped 1 pound beef round steak , sliced paper thin  In a large bowl , mix together the soy sauce , sesame oil , brown sugar , garlic , and red onion . Stir in the black pepper , red pepper flakes , sesame seeds , leeks and carrot . Mix in the meat by hand to ensure even coating . Cover and let marinate for at least 2 hours or overnight . Brush the bottom half of a wok with cooking oil , and heat over medium-high heat . Put in all of the meat and marinade at once , and cook stirring constantly . The meat will be cooked after just a few minutes . Remove from heat and serve with rice or noodles . For Korean style fire meat , roll the meat mixture up in a leaf of red lettuce . 
2 (14.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 egg , lightly beaten 2 tablespoons chopped green onion  In a medium stock pot , mix cold chicken broth with cornstarch . Slowly heat over medium heat , stirring frequently . Pour beaten egg into soup , and stir once around stock pot very gently , in order to break up egg . Remove soup from heat immediately , divide into four portions and garnish with green onions . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 2 tablespoons white wine 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons sesame oil , divided 2 tablespoons cornstarch , dissolved in 2 tablespoons water 1 ounce hot chile paste 1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 2 teaspoons brown sugar 4 green onions , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts 4 ounces chopped peanuts  To Make Marinade : Combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture and mix together . Place chicken pieces in a glass dish or bowl and add marinade . Toss to coat . Cover dish and place in refrigerator for about 30 minutes . To Make Sauce : In a small bowl combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil , 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture , chili paste , vinegar and sugar . Mix together and add green onion , garlic , water chestnuts and peanuts . In a medium skillet , heat sauce slowly until aromatic . Meanwhile , remove chicken from marinade and saute in a large skillet until meat is white and juices run clear . When sauce is aromatic , add sauteed chicken to it and let simmer together until sauce thickens . 
1 egg white 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 pinch salt 1/4 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F . Butter a cookie sheet . Write fortunes on strips of paper about 4 inches long and 1/2 inch wide . Generously grease 2 cookie sheets . Mix the egg white and vanilla until foamy but not stiff . Sift the flour , salt , and sugar and blend into the egg white mixture . Place teaspoonfuls of the batter at least 4 inches apart on one of the prepared cookie sheets . Tilt the sheet to move the batter into round shapes about 3 inches in diameter . Be careful to make batter as round and even as possible . Do not make too many , because the cookie have to be really hot to form them and once they cool it is too late . Start with 2 or 3 to a sheet and see how many you can do . Bake for 5 minutes or until cookie has turned a golden color 1/2 inch wide around the outer edge of the circle . The center will remain pale . While one sheet is baking , prepare the other . Remove from oven and quickly move cookie with a wide spatula and place upside down on a wooden board . Quickly place the fortune on the cookie , close to the middle and fold the cookie in half . Place the folded edge across the rim of a measuring cup and pull the pointed edges down , one on the inside of the cup and one on the outside . Place folded cookies into the cups of a muffin tin or egg carton to hold their shape until firm . 
8 ounces uncooked spaghetti 1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 cups fresh sliced mushrooms 1 cup shredded carrots 1/2 cup sliced red bell peppers 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups fresh bean sprouts 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth 1/4 cup hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon curry powder  Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat oil in a large wok or saute pan . Stir fry mushrooms , carrots , peppers , onion and garlic until tender . Stir in bean sprouts and green onions ; cook one minute . Mix cornstarch and chicken broth in a small bowl and add to stir fry . Stir in hoisin sauce , honey , soy sauce , ginger , cayenne pepper and curry powder . Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly . Add cooked spaghetti , and toss . Serve immediately . 
4 teaspoons vegetable oil 3 eggs , beaten 1 medium head cabbage , finely shredded 1/2 carrot , julienned 1 (8 ounce) can shredded bamboo shoots 1 cup dried , shredded wood ear mushroom , rehydrated 1 pound Chinese barbequed or roasted pork , cut into matchsticks 2 green onions , thinly sliced 2 1/2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1 (14 ounce) package egg roll wrappers 1 egg white , beaten 4 cups oil for frying , or as needed  Heat 1 teaspoon vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Pour in beaten eggs and cook , without stirring , until firmed . Flip the eggs over and cook for an additional 20 seconds to firm the other side . Set egg pancake aside to cool , then slice into thin strips . Heat the remaining vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in cabbage and carrot ; cook for 2 minutes to wilt . Add bamboo , mushroom , pork , green onions , soy sauce , salt , sugar , and MSG ; continue cooking until the vegetables soften , about 6 minutes . Stir in sliced egg , then spread mixture out onto a pan , and refrigerate until cold , about 1 hour . To assemble the egg rolls , place a wrapper onto your work surface with one corner pointing towards you . Place about 3 tablespoons of cooled filling in a heap onto the bottom third of the wrapper . Brush a little beaten egg white onto the top two edges of the wrapper , then fold the bottom corner over the filling and roll firmly to the halfway point . Fold the left and right sides snugly over the egg roll , then continue rolling until the top corners seal the egg roll with the egg white . Repeat with remaining egg roll wrappers , covering finished egg rolls with plastic wrap to keep from drying out . Heat about 6-inches of oil in a wok or deep-fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Fry egg rolls 3 or 4 at a time until golden brown , 5 to 7 minutes . Drain on paper towels . 
3 tablespoons canola oil 4 Chinese eggplants , halved lengthwise and cut into 1 inch half moons 1 cup water 1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes 3 tablespoons garlic powder 5 teaspoons white sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons light soy sauce 2 tablespoons oyster sauce  Heat the canola oil in a skillet over high heat . Cook and stir the eggplant until soft , about 4 minutes . Stir in the water , red pepper flakes , and garlic powder . Cover and simmer until all the water is absorbed . Meanwhile , mix sugar , cornstarch , soy sauce , and oyster sauce in a bowl until sugar and cornstarch have dissolved . Stir sauce into the eggplant , making sure to evenly coat the eggplant . Cook until the sauce has thickened . 
5 dried wood ear mushrooms 4 dried shiitake mushrooms 8 dried tiger lily buds 4 cups chicken stock 1/3 cup diced bamboo shoots 1/3 cup lean ground pork 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 3 tablespoons water 1/2 (16 ounce) package firm tofu , cubed 1 egg , lightly beaten 1 teaspoon sesame oil 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion  Soak the dried mushrooms and tiger lily buds in warm water for 20 minutes . After trimming off any tough stems , slice the mushrooms . With the fingers , shred the tiger lily stems . Place the mushrooms , tiger lily buds , stock , bamboo shoots , and shredded pork into a saucepan . Bring to a boil , and simmer for 10 minutes . Stir in soy sauce , sugar , salt , white pepper , and vinegar . Combine cornstarch with 3 tablespoons water . Add a little of the hot soup to the cornstarch , and then return all to the pan . Heat to boiling , stirring . Add the bean curd , and cook 1 to 2 minutes . Just before serving , turn off the heat . Stir the egg in gradually . Mix in sesame oil . Sprinkle each serving with scallions . 
1 (1 1/2 pound) eggplant 4 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 cup chicken stock 1 teaspoon chili sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons oyster sauce (optional) 1 tablespoon cornstarch 4 tablespoons water 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 large green onions , finely chopped 1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger root 1/4 pound fresh shrimp - peeled , deveined , and diced 1/3 pound lean ground beef 1 tablespoon sesame oil 4 cups hot cooked rice  Remove the eggplant stem and cut into 1-inch cubes . In a medium bowl , combine the soy sauce , chicken stock , chili sauce , sugar , ground black pepper and oyster sauce . Stir together well and set aside . In a separate small bowl , combine the cornstarch and water , and set aside . Coat a large , deep pan with cooking spray over high heat and allow a few minutes for it to get very hot . Saute the garlic , half of the green onions , ginger and dried shrimp , if using (see Cook's Note) for 3 to 5 minutes , stirring constantly , until they begin to brown . Stir in the ground beef or pork and cook for 3 more minutes , again stirring constantly , until browned . Pour the eggplant into the pan and stir all together . Pour the reserved soy sauce mixture over all , cover the pan , reduce heat to medium low and let simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . If you're using fresh shrimp , add it during the last few minutes of cooking . Stir in the reserved cornstarch mixture and let heat until thickened . Finally , stir in the rest of the green onions and the sesame oil . Serve over hot rice . 
1 cup confectioners' sugar 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup butter 1 egg , beaten 1 dash vanilla extract 2/3 cup white sugar 1 1/2 cups water 9 eggs , beaten 1 dash vanilla extract 1 cup evaporated milk  In a medium bowl , mix together the confectioners' sugar and flour . Mix in butter with a fork until it is in small crumbs . Stir in the egg and vanilla until the mixture forms a dough . The texture should be slightly moist . Add more butter if it is too dry , or more flour , if the dough seems greasy . Shape dough into 1 1/2 inch balls , and press the balls into tart molds so that it covers the bottom , and goes up higher than the sides . Use 2 fingers to shape the edge into an A shape . Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Combine the white sugar and water in a medium saucepan , and bring to a boil . Cook until the sugar is dissolved , remove from heat and cool to room temperature . Strain the eggs through a sieve , and whisk into the sugar mixture . Stir in the evaporated milk and vanilla . Strain the filling through a sieve , and fill the tart shells . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown , and the filling is puffed up a little bit . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup warm water 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  Mix together yeast , 1 teaspoon sugar , 1/4 cup flour , and 1/4 cup warm water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Mix in 1/2 cup warm water , flour , salt , 2 tablespoons sugar , and vegetable oil . Knead until dough surface is smooth and elastic . Roll over in a greased bowl , and let stand until triple in size , about 2 1/2 to 3 hours . Punch down dough , and spread out on a floured board . Sprinkle baking powder evenly on surface , and knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 2 parts , and place the piece you are not working with in a covered bowl . Divide each half into 12 parts . Shape each part into a ball with smooth surface up . Put each ball on a wax paper square . Let stand covered until double , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
2 3/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup lard 1 egg 1 teaspoon almond extract 48 almonds  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Sift flour , sugar , baking soda and salt together into a bowl . Cut in the lard until mixture resembles cornmeal . Add egg and almond extract . Mix well . Roll dough into 1-inch balls . Set them 2 inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet . Place an almond on top of each cookie and press down to flatten slightly . Bake in the preheated oven until the edges of the cookies are golden brown , 15 to 18 minutes . 
3 pounds boneless chicken breasts , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 tablespoon dry sherry 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 2 cups vegetable oil 1/4 cup cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/3 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 1 lemon , sliced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  In a large bowl combine the chicken pieces , sherry , soy sauce and 1/2 teaspoon salt . Mix together , cover and refrigerate . Let marinate for 15 to 20 minutes . In a small bowl , whisk together 1/4 cup cornstarch and the baking powder ; beat in eggs to form a batter . Coat chicken pieces with batter and set aside . In a wok , heat 2 cups oil to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Working in batches , fry chicken pieces in hot oil until browned . Transfer to paper towel-lined plate . In a medium bowl combine the sugar , 1 tablespoon cornstarch , broth , lemon juice and 1 teaspoon salt . Mix together and add lemon slices . Heat 2 tablespoons oil in small saucepan and slowly stir in lemon sauce mixture . Cook , stirring , until sauce is clear . Pour sauce over chicken and serve . 
100 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers 1 3/4 pounds ground pork 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion 4 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons sesame oil 1 egg , beaten 5 cups finely shredded Chinese cabbage  In a large bowl , combine the pork , ginger , garlic , green onion , soy sauce , sesame oil , egg and cabbage . Stir until well mixed . Place 1 heaping teaspoon of pork filling onto each wonton skin . Moisten edges with water and fold edges over to form a triangle shape . Roll edges slightly to seal in filling . Set dumplings aside on a lightly floured surface until ready to cook . To Cook : Steam dumplings in a covered bamboo or metal steamer for about 15 to 20 minutes . Serve immediately . 
1 cup uncooked white rice 2 cups water 2 tablespoons sesame oil 3 green onions , thinly sliced including tops 1 cup diced ham 1/2 cup peas 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained 1 egg , beaten 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon white pepper 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 cup soy sauce  Bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Spread cooked rice out on a rimmed baking sheet and refrigerate until cooled , about 20 minutes . Heat sesame oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Cook and stir the green onions , ham , and peas in the hot oil until onions have softened , about 2 minutes . Stir the pineapple chunks into the wok ; cook until pineapple begins to darken , about 2 minute . Push ingredients to the side of the wok , and pour beaten egg in the center . Cook until egg begins to set , about 30 seconds . Stir together all contents of the wok . Mix the cooled rice , sugar , salt , white pepper , and garlic powder into the wok ; stir constantly to keep from sticking . Cook until heated through , about 3 minutes . Sprinkle the rice with the soy sauce , and stir to combine . 
8 cubes chicken bouillon 6 cups hot water 2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 1 green onion , minced 3 eggs , beaten  In a large saucepan , dissolve bouillon in hot water . Mix cornstarch with a small amount of water , and stir into bouillon . Add soy sauce , vinegar , and green onion . Bring to a boil , then simmer , stirring occasionally . Gradually pour the beaten eggs into the saucepan while stirring . Serve at once . 
1 pound sirloin steak , cut into bite size strips 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper 1 clove garlic , minced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups fresh broccoli florets 2 small onions , cut into wedges 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts , drained 1/4 cup chicken broth 1/2 cup peanuts  Toss beef with soy sauce , cornstarch , crushed red pepper and garlic in non-metal bowl . Cover and refrigerate 20 minutes . Heat oil in wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir fry beef until no longer pink , 5 minutes . Stir in broccoli , onions and water chestnuts ; cook 2 minutes . Pour in broth , and bring to a boil . Stir in peanuts , cook one minute more , and serve . 
1 (14 ounce) package small won ton wrappers 2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley 3 tablespoons dark soy sauce 1 pound crabmeat , shredded 1 quart oil for frying  Heat oil in a large heavy skillet or deep fryer to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . In a small bowl , mix together cream cheese , soy sauce , ginger , garlic , parsley , cilantro and crabmeat . Place 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of the cream cheese mixture into the center of each wonton wrapper . Fold the won ton wrapper over the stuffing to make a triangle or a half moon , depending on the shape of the won ton wrappers you have purchased . Moisten the edges with a little water , and seal . Place prepared won tons under a slightly moist paper towel until ready for frying . Add 3 or 4 wontons to the hot oil , and cook until golden brown , turning once . Set aside on paper towels to drain . Repeat until all wontons have been fried . Serve hot . 
2 (3 ounce) packages Oriental flavored ramen noodles 3 eggs , beaten vegetable oil 4 green onions , thinly sliced 1 small carrot , peeled and grated 1/2 cup green peas 1/4 cup red bell pepper , minced 2 tablespoons sesame oil soy sauce  Boil ramen noodles for 3 minutes , or until softened , without flavor packets . Reserve flavor packets . Drain noodles , and set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a small skillet . Scramble eggs in a bowl . Cook and stir in hot oil until firm . Set aside . In a separate skillet , heat 1 teaspoon of oil over medium heat . Cook and stir green onions in oil for 2 to 3 minutes , or until softened . Transfer to a separate dish , and set aside . Heat another teaspoon of cooking oil in the same skillet . Cook and stir the the carrots , peas , and bell peppers separately in the same manner , setting each aside when done . Combine 2 tablespoons sesame oil with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a separate skillet or wok . Fry noodles in oil for 3 to 5 minutes over medium heat , turning regularly . Sprinkle soy sauce , sesame oil , and desired amount of reserved ramen seasoning packets over noodles , and toss to coat . Add vegetables , and continue cooking , turning frequently , for another 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon ketchup 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon sake 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh garlic 1/4 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 pound pork spareribs  In a shallow glass dish , mix together the hoisin sauce , ketchup , honey , soy sauce , sake , rice vinegar , lemon juice , ginger , garlic and five-spice powder . Place the ribs in the dish , and turn to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours , or as long as overnight . Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Fill a broiler tray with enough water to cover the bottom . Place the grate or rack over the tray . Arrange the ribs on the grate . Place the broiler rack in the center of the oven . Cook for 40 minutes , turning and brushing with the marinade every 10 minutes . Let the marinade cook on for the final 10 minutes to make a glaze . Finish under the broiler if desired . Discard any remaining marinade . 
1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained (juice reserved) 1/4 cup cornstarch 1 3/4 cups water , divided 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup distilled white vinegar 2 drops orange food color 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 2 1/4 cups self-rising flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 egg 1 1/2 cups water 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 2 green bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces  In a saucepan , combine 1 1/2 cups water , sugar , vinegar , reserved pineapple juice , and orange food coloring . Heat to boiling . Turn off heat . Combine 1/4 cup cornstarch and 1/4 cup water ; slowly stir into saucepan . Continue stirring until mixture thickens . Combine flour , 2 tablespoons oil , 2 tablespoons cornstarch , salt , white pepper , and egg . Add 1 1/2 cups water gradually to make a thick batter . Stir to blend thoroughly . Add chicken pieces , and stir until chicken is well coated . Heat oil in skillet or wok to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . Fry chicken pieces in hot oil 10 minutes , or until golden . Remove chicken , and drain on paper towels . When ready to serve , layer green peppers , pineapple chunks , and cooked chicken pieces on a platter . Pour hot sweet and sour sauce over top . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup warm water 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  Mix together yeast , 1 teaspoon sugar , 1/4 cup flour , and 1/4 cup warm water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Mix in 1/2 cup warm water , flour , salt , 2 tablespoons sugar , and vegetable oil . Knead until dough surface is smooth and elastic . Roll over in a greased bowl , and let stand until triple in size , about 2 1/2 to 3 hours . Punch down dough , and spread out on a floured board . Sprinkle baking powder evenly on surface , and knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 2 parts , and place the piece you are not working with in a covered bowl . Divide each half into 12 parts . Shape each part into a ball with smooth surface up . Put each ball on a wax paper square . Let stand covered until double , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
1 cup vegetable oil 13 pounds fresh green beans , trimmed 5 tablespoons minced garlic 5 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons kosher salt 1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper 2 (8 ounce) bottles black bean sauce  In a large wok , heat oil over medium-high heat . Stir in green beans ; cook , stirring frequently , for 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in garlic and ginger ; cook , stirring frequently , for 3 to 4 minutes . Season with salt and pepper , and then stir in black bean sauce . Continue cooking until green beans are tender . 
4 tablespoons water 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon honey 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 cup sliced green onions 4 cloves garlic , minced 12 ounces cooked shrimp , tails removed  In a bowl , stir together water , ketchup , soy sauce , cornstarch , honey , crushed red pepper , and ground ginger . Set aside . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in green onions and garlic ; cook 30 seconds . Stir in shrimp , and toss to coat with oil . Stir in sauce . Cook and stir until sauce is bubbly and thickened . 
