2 mangos - peeled , seeded and diced 2 cups plain yogurt 1/2 cup white sugar 1 cup ice  In a blender , combine mangos , yogurt , sugar and ice . Blend until smooth . Pour into glasses and serve . 
1 cup halved grape tomatoes 1 cup diced cucumber 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint salt and ground black pepper to taste  Mix grape tomatoes , cucumber , green onions , cilantro , lemon juice , mint , salt , and pepper together in a large bowl . 
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 cup warm water 1/4 cup white sugar 3 tablespoons milk 1 egg , beaten 2 teaspoons salt 4 1/2 cups bread flour 2 teaspoons minced garlic (optional) 1/4 cup butter , melted  In a large bowl , dissolve yeast in warm water . Let stand about 10 minutes , until frothy . Stir in sugar , milk , egg , salt , and enough flour to make a soft dough . Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface , or until smooth . Place dough in a well oiled bowl , cover with a damp cloth , and set aside to rise . Let it rise 1 hour , until the dough has doubled in volume . Punch down dough , and knead in garlic . Pinch off small handfuls of dough about the size of a golf ball . Roll into balls , and place on a tray . Cover with a towel , and allow to rise until doubled in size , about 30 minutes . During the second rising , preheat grill to high heat . At grill side , roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle . Lightly oil grill . Place dough on grill , and cook for 2 to 3 minutes , or until puffy and lightly browned . Brush uncooked side with butter , and turn over . Brush cooked side with butter , and cook until browned , another 2 to 4 minutes . Remove from grill , and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared . 
1/2 cup chopped onion 2 stalks celery , chopped 1 carrot , diced 1/4 cup butter 1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 4 cups chicken broth 1/2 apple , cored and chopped 1/4 cup white rice 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half - cut into cubes salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch dried thyme 1/2 cup heavy cream , heated  Saute onions , celery , carrot , and butter in a large soup pot . Add flour and curry , and cook 5 more minutes . Add chicken stock , mix well , and bring to a boil . Simmer about 1/2 hour . Add apple , rice , chicken , salt , pepper , and thyme . Simmer 15-20 minutes , or until rice is done . When serving , add hot cream . 
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 small onion , diced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 potatoes , cubed 4 carrots , cubed 1 fresh jalapeno pepper , seeded and sliced 3 tablespoons ground unsalted cashews 1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 teaspoons salt 1 1/2 tablespoons curry powder 1 cup frozen green peas 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 cup heavy cream 1 bunch fresh cilantro for garnish  Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , and cook until tender . Mix in ginger and garlic , and continue cooking 1 minute . Mix potatoes , carrots , jalapeno , cashews , and tomato sauce . Season with salt and curry powder . Cook and stir 10 minutes , or until potatoes are tender . Stir peas , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , and cream into the skillet . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 10 minutes . Garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1 tablespoon peanut oil 1 shallot , finely chopped 1/4 white onion , chopped 2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 bay leaf 1/4 cup plain yogurt 1 cup half-and-half 1 cup tomato puree 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 1 pinch salt 1 pinch black pepper 1 tablespoon peanut oil 1 pound boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into bite-size pieces 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/4 cup water  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large saucepan over medium high heat . Saute shallot and onion until soft and translucent . Stir in butter , lemon juice , ginger-garlic paste , 1 teaspoon garam masala , chili powder , cumin and bay leaf . Cook , stirring , for 1 minute . Add tomato sauce , and cook for 2 minutes , stirring frequently . Stir in half-and-half and yogurt . Reduce heat to low , and simmer for 10 minutes , stirring frequently . Season with salt pepper . Remove from heat and set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large heavy skillet over medium heat . Cook chicken until lightly browned , about 10 minutes . Reduce heat , and season with 1 teaspoon garam masala and cayenne . Stir in a few spoonfuls of sauce , and simmer until liquid has reduced , and chicken is no longer pink . Stir cooked chicken into sauce . Mix together cornstarch and water , then stir into the sauce . Cook for 5 to 10 minutes , or until thickened . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 small onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons curry powder 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon paprika 1 bay leaf 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon white sugar salt to taste 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1 cup plain yogurt 3/4 cup coconut milk 1/2 lemon , juiced 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper  Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Saute onion until lightly browned . Stir in garlic , curry powder , cinnamon , paprika , bay leaf , ginger , sugar and salt . Continue stirring for 2 minutes . Add chicken pieces , tomato paste , yogurt , and coconut milk . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes . Remove bay leaf , and stir in lemon juice and cayenne pepper . Simmer 5 more minutes . 
2 cups red lentils 1 large onion , diced 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 tablespoons curry paste 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 (14.25 ounce) can tomato puree  Wash the lentils in cold water until the water runs clear . Put lentils in a pot with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil , place a cover on the pot , reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer , adding water during cooking as needed to keep covered , until tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Drain . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir onions in hot oil until caramelized , about 20 minutes . Mix curry paste , curry powder , turmeric , cumin , chili powder , salt , sugar , garlic , and ginger together in a large bowl ; stir into the onions . Increase heat to high and cook , stirring constantly , until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in the tomato puree , remove from heat and stir into the lentils . 
2 tablespoons ghee (clarified butter) 1 onion , finely chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 (14 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 cup heavy whipping cream 2 teaspoons paprika 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into bite-size pieces 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste (optional) 1 teaspoon white sugar , or to taste (optional)  Heat ghee in a large skillet over medium heat and cook and stir onion until translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in garlic ; cook and stir just until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir cumin , 1 teaspoon salt , ginger , cayenne pepper , cinnamon , and turmeric into the onion mixture ; fry until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Stir tomato sauce into the onion and spice mixture , bring to a boil , and reduce heat to low . Simmer sauce for 10 minutes , then mix in cream , paprika , and 1 tablespoon sugar . Bring sauce back to a simmer and cook , stirring often , until sauce is thickened , 10 to 15 minutes . Heat vegetable oil in a separate skillet over medium heat . Stir chicken into the hot oil , sprinkle with curry powder , and sear chicken until lightly browned but still pink inside , about 3 minutes ; stir often . Transfer chicken and any pan juices into the sauce . Simmer chicken in sauce until no longer pink , about 30 minutes ; adjust salt and sugar to taste . 
1 cup butter , divided 1 onion , minced 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 3 cups heavy cream 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut into bite-sized chunks 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons tandoori masala  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Melt a few tablespoons of butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in onion and garlic , and cook slowly until the onion caramelizes to a dark brown , about 15 minutes . Meanwhile melt the remaining butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat along with the tomato sauce , heavy cream , salt , cayenne pepper , and garam masala . Bring to a simmer , then reduce heat to medium-low ; cover , and simmer for 30 minutes , stirring occasionally . Then stir in caramelized onions . While the sauce is simmering , toss cubed chicken breast with vegetable oil until coated , then season with tandoori masala and spread out onto a baking sheet . Bake chicken in preheated oven until no longer pink in the center , about 12 minutes . Once done , add the chicken to the sauce and simmer for 5 minutes before serving . 
4 potatoes , peeled and cubed 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 yellow onion , diced 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons cayenne pepper 4 teaspoons curry powder 4 teaspoons garam masala 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled and minced 2 teaspoons salt 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can peas , drained 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk  Place potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until just tender , about 15 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Meanwhile , heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Season with cumin , cayenne pepper , curry powder , garam masala , ginger , and salt ; cook for 2 minutes more . Add the tomatoes , garbanzo beans , peas , and potatoes . Pour in the coconut milk , and bring to a simmer . Simmer 5 to 10 minutes before serving . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 cup cooking oil 1 1/2 cups chopped onion 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon water 1 (15 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 cup plain yogurt 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice  Sprinkle the chicken breasts with 2 teaspoons salt . Heat the oil in a large skillet over high heat ; partially cook the chicken in the hot oil in batches until completely browned . Transfer the browned chicken breasts to a plate and set aside . Reduce the heat under the skillet to medium-high ; add the onion , garlic , and ginger to the oil remaining in the skillet and cook and stir until the onion turns translucent , about 8 minutes . Stir the curry powder , cumin , turmeric , coriander , cayenne , and 1 tablespoon of water into the onion mixture ; allow to heat together for about 1 minute while stirring . Mix the tomatoes , yogurt , 1 tablespoon chopped cilantro , and 1 teaspoon salt into the mixture . Return the chicken breast to the skillet along with any juices on the plate . Pour 1/2 cup water into the mixture ; bring to a boil , turning the chicken to coat with the sauce . Sprinkle the garam masala and 1 tablespoon cilantro over the chicken . Cover the skillet and simmer until the chicken breasts are no longer pink in the center and the juices run clear , about 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Sprinkle with lemon juice to serve . 
2 1/2 cups grated zucchini 1 1/3 cups finely chopped onions 1/3 cup chopped green bell pepper 1/3 cup chopped red bell pepper 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 3 eggs , lightly beaten 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander salt to taste 1/2 cup crumbled feta cheese 1/2 cup chickpea flour 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1/4 cup rice flour 3 tablespoons canola oil , or as needed  Place zucchini in a colander . Cover with cheesecloth or paper towels and squeeze out as much moisture as possible . Transfer zucchini to a large bowl ; mix in onions , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , and jalapeno pepper . Add eggs , cumin , coriander , and salt ; mix well . Stir in feta cheese , chickpea flour , cilantro , and rice flour until batter is well blended and thick . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet over medium heat . Drop pancake-sized scoops of batter into the skillet ; cook until golden brown , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Transfer to a serving plate . Repeat with remaining oil and batter . 
1 cup basmati rice 2 cups water 1/4 cup roasted peanuts 1 tablespoon margarine 1 onion , sliced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 3/4 cup grated carrots salt to taste cayenne pepper to taste chopped fresh cilantro  Combine rice and water in a medium saucepan . Bring to a boil over high heat . Reduce heat to low , cover with lid , and allow to steam until tender , about 20 minutes . While rice is cooking , grind peanuts in a blender and set aside . Heat the margarine in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned golden brown about 10 minutes . Stir in ginger , carrots , and salt to taste . Reduce heat to low and cover to steam 5 minutes . Stir in cayenne pepper and peanuts . When rice is done , add it to skillet and stir gently to combine with other ingredients . Garnish with chopped cilantro . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 onions , minced 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons fresh ginger root , finely chopped 6 whole cloves 2 (2 inch) sticks cinnamon , crushed 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander salt 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans 1 cup chopped fresh cilantro  Heat oil in a large frying pan over medium heat , and fry onions until tender . Stir in garlic , ginger , cloves , cinnamon , cumin , coriander , salt , cayenne , and turmeric . Cook for 1 minute over medium heat , stirring constantly . Mix in garbanzo beans and their liquid . Continue to cook and stir until all ingredients are well blended and heated through . Remove from heat . Stir in cilantro just before serving , reserving 1 tablespoon for garnish . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 large skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 onion , diced 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons curry powder 1 tablespoon curry paste 2 teaspoons tandoori masala 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 15 green cardamom pods 1 cup low-fat plain yogurt 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk salt to taste  Melt the butter and vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the chicken , onion , and garlic . Cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 10 minutes . Stir in the curry powder , curry paste , tandoori masala , garam masala , and tomato paste until no lumps of tomato paste remain . Pour into a slow cooker , and stir in the cardamom pods , coconut milk , and yogurt . Season to taste with salt . Cook on High 4 to 6 hours , or on Low 6 to 8 hours until the chicken is tender and the sauce has reduced to your desired consistency . Remove and discard the cardamom pods before serving . 
1 large eggplant 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 medium onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 tomato , diced 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1 fresh jalapeno chile pepper , finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 bunch cilantro , finely chopped  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place eggplant on a medium baking sheet . Bake 20 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until tender . Remove from heat , cool , peel , and chop . Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Mix in cumin seeds and onion . Cook and stir until onion is tender . Mix ginger garlic paste , curry powder , and tomato into the saucepan , and cook about 1 minute . Stir in yogurt . Mix in eggplant and jalapeno pepper , and season with salt . Cover , and cook 10 minutes over high heat . Remove cover , reduce heat to low , and continue cooking about 5 minutes . Garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1 onion , chopped 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 pound potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 tomatoes , chopped  Lightly brown onion in oil in a medium size skillet . Stir in salt , cayenne , turmeric and cumin . Add potatoes and cook 10 minutes stirring occasionally . Add tomatoes , cover pan and cook until potatoes are soft , about 10 minutes . 
2 (6 ounce) containers plain yogurt 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 2 tablespoons freshly grated ginger 3 cloves garlic , minced 4 teaspoons paprika 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons ground coriander 16 chicken thighs olive oil spray  In a medium bowl , stir together yogurt , salt , pepper , cloves , and ginger . Mix in garlic , paprika , cumin , cinnamon , and coriander . Set aside . Rinse chicken under cold water , and pat dry with paper towels . Place chicken in a large resealable plastic bag . Pour yogurt mixture over chicken , press air out of bag , and seal . Turn the bag over several times to distribute marinade . Place bag in a bowl , and refrigerate 8 hours , or overnight , turning bag occasionally . Preheat an outdoor grill for direct medium heat . Remove chicken from bag , and discard marinade . With paper towels , wipe off excess marinade . Spray chicken pieces with olive oil spray . Place chicken on the grill , and cook about 2 minutes . Turn , and cook 2 minutes more . Then arrange the chicken to receive indirect heat , and cook approximately 35 to 40 minutes , to an internal temperature of 180 degrees F . 
2 pounds chicken , cut into pieces 1 teaspoon salt 1 lemon , juiced 1 1/4 cups plain yogurt 1/2 onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 2 teaspoons garam masala 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon yellow food coloring 1 teaspoon red food coloring 2 teaspoons finely chopped cilantro 1 lemon , cut into wedges  Remove skin from chicken pieces , and cut slits into them lengthwise . Place in a shallow dish . Sprinkle both sides of chicken with salt and lemon juice . Set aside 20 minutes . In a medium bowl , combine yogurt , onion , garlic , ginger , garam masala , and cayenne pepper . Mix until smooth . Stir in yellow and red food coloring . Spread yogurt mixture over chicken . Cover , and refrigerate for 6 to 24 hours (the longer the better) . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium high heat , and lightly oil grate . Cook chicken on grill until no longer pink and juices run clear . Garnish with cilantro and lemon wedges . 
1 1/2 cups basmati rice 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (2 inch) piece cinnamon stick 2 pods green cardamom 2 whole cloves 1 tablespoon cumin seed 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 2 1/2 cups water 1 small onion , thinly sliced  Place rice into a bowl with enough water to cover . Set aside to soak for 20 minutes . Heat the oil in a large pot or saucepan over medium heat . Add the cinnamon stick , cardamom pods , cloves , and cumin seed . Cook and stir for about a minute , then add the onion to the pot . Saute the onion until a rich golden brown , about 10 minutes . Drain the water from the rice , and stir into the pot . Cook and stir the rice for a few minutes , until lightly toasted . Add salt and water to the pot , and bring to a boil . Cover , and reduce heat to low . Simmer for about 15 minutes , or until all of the water has been absorbed . Let stand for 5 minutes , then fluff with a fork before serving . 
1/4 cup cashew halves 1/4 cup boiling water 3 cloves garlic , peeled 1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled and chopped 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 bay leaves , crumbled 1 large onion , minced 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon chili powder 3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - diced 1/4 cup tomato sauce 1 cup chicken broth 1/2 cup heavy cream 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1 teaspoon cornstarch , mixed with equal parts water  Place cashews in a small bowl , and pour the boiling water over nuts . Set aside for 15 to 20 minutes . Place garlic and ginger in food processor and blend until smooth ; set aside . Heat oil in wok over medium heat . Cook the bay leaves in hot oil for 30 seconds . Stir in onion , and cook until soft , about 3 to 5 minutes . Mix in garlic/ginger paste , and season with coriander , garam masala , cumin , turmeric , and chili powder . Stir in chicken , and cook for about 5 minutes . Pour in tomato sauce and chicken broth . Cover , reduce heat , and simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Meanwhile , place the cashews , along with the water in which they were soaked , and the cream and yogurt into food processor . Process until smooth . Stir the cashew mixture into the chicken and onions . Simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cornstarch mixture , and continue cooking for 1 to 2 minutes . 
1 large onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1 slice fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1 (1 inch) piece cinnamon stick 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 bay leaves 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 6 skinless chicken thighs 1 (14.5 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes , crushed  Place onion , garlic and ginger in a food processor and process into a paste . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat , add onion paste and saute , stirring continuously , for about 10 minutes . Stir in the cumin , turmeric , salt , pepper , cardamom , cinnamon , cloves , bay leaves and nutmeg . Saute , stirring , for 1 to 2 minutes . Place chicken pieces in skillet and stir them around with the spice mixture until they are well coated . Saute for another 4 minutes , then pour in the tomatoes with liquid and stir . Reduce heat to low and simmer for 1 to 2 hours , or until the oil has separated from the liquid . Stir occasionally . (Note : If you simmer uncovered , the sauce will thicken ; add water , or keep covered while simmering.) 
1 cup basmati rice 7 1/2 cups water , divided 1 cup red lentils (masoor dal) , rinsed 1/2 cup finely chopped red onion (optional) 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper (optional) 1/2 teaspoon cayenne powder (optional) 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 cup broccoli florets (optional) 1 cup diced tomatoes (optional) 1 cup frozen peas (optional) 1 tablespoon olive oil , or as needed 1 cup sliced mushrooms (optional) 1 tablespoon peeled , finely grated fresh ginger 2 cloves garlic , finely grated  Rinse rice in several changes of water and transfer to a container . Cover with water and let soak at room temperature , 15 minutes to 1 hour . Drain . Combine 6 cups water with red lentils in a large pot over medium heat . Bring to a simmer , skimming any scum that collects on the surface . Stir in onion , cumin , coriander , salt , black pepper , cayenne , and turmeric . Reduce heat to low and simmer , partially covered , until lentils are tender , about 30 minutes . Stir broccoli , tomatoes , peas , and salt into the pot . Continue cooking , stirring frequently , until lentils are soft , about 30 minutes more . Combine drained rice with remaining 1 1/2 cup water in another pot ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to very low and simmer , covered with a tight-fitting lid , until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed , about 20 minutes . Heat oil in a small skillet over medium heat . Add mushrooms , ginger , and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour over lentils ; stir to distribute . Cook lentils until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . Serve lentils with rice . 
2 mangos - peeled , seeded and diced 2 cups plain yogurt 1/2 cup white sugar 1 cup ice  In a blender , combine mangos , yogurt , sugar and ice . Blend until smooth . Pour into glasses and serve . 
6 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 2 dried red chile peppers (optional) 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 3/4 cup sour cream 3 pounds fresh spinach , torn 1 large tomato , quartered 4 sprigs fresh cilantro leaves 8 ounces ricotta cheese coarse sea salt to taste  In a large saucepan heat 3 tablespoons of olive oil and saute garlic , 1/2 tablespoon of ginger , red chilies (optional ingredient) and onion until brown . Mix in the cumin , coriander , turmeric and sour cream (add more or less to achieve desired creaminess) . Add the spinach , handfuls at a time until it is cooked down , about 15 minutes total . Remove from heat and allow to cool slightly . Pour spinach mixture into a blender or food processor and add the tomato , the remaining 1/2 tablespoon of ginger , and cilantro (add more or less according to taste) . Blend for 15 to 30 seconds , or until the spinach is finely chopped . Pour back into the saucepan and keep warm over low heat . In a medium frying pan heat 3 tablespoons of olive oil over medium heat , and fry cheese until browned ; drain and add to spinach . Cook for 10 minutes on low heat . Season with salt to taste . 
1 1/2 cups red lentils 3 1/2 cups water 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 pound spinach , rinsed and chopped 2 tablespoons butter 1 onion , chopped 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon mustard seed 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 cup coconut milk  Rinse lentils and soak for 20 minutes . In a large saucepan , bring water to a boil and stir in salt , lentils , turmeric and chili powder . Cover and return to a boil , then reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes . Stir in the spinach and cook 5 minutes , or until lentils are soft . Add more water if necessary . In a small saucepan over medium heat , melt butter and saute onions with cumin and mustard seeds , stirring often . Cook until onions are transparent , and then combine with lentils . Stir in garam masala and coconut milk and cook until heated through . 
2 large potatoes , peeled 1 cup frozen peas , thawed 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 bay leaf , crushed 2 large onions , finely chopped 1 pound ground beef 4 cloves garlic , crushed 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 tablespoons chopped green chile peppers 1 quart oil for deep frying 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough  Bring a medium saucepan of lightly salted water to a boil . Stir in potatoes and peas . Cook until potatoes are tender but still firm , about 15 minutes . Drain , mash together and set aside . In a large saucepan over medium high heat , heat the oil . Brown cumin seeds and bay leaf . Mix in onions and ground beef . Cook until beef is evenly brown and onions are soft , about 5 minutes . Mix in garlic , fresh ginger root . Season with black pepper , salt , cumin , coriander , turmeric , chili powder , cinnamon and cardamom . Stir in the mashed potato mixture . Remove from heat and chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour , or until cool . Heat oil in a large , heavy saucepan over high heat . Mix cilantro and green chile peppers into the potato and beef mixture . Place approximately 1 tablespoon of the mixture onto each phyllo sheet . Fold sheets into triangles , pressing edges together with moistened fingers . In small batches , fry until golden brown , about 3 minutes . Drain on paper towels and serve warm . 
1 tablespoon butter 1 onion , chopped 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 packet dry onion soup mix (such as Knorr® French Onion Soup Mix) 3 tablespoons curry powder , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 teaspoons ground cayenne pepper , or to taste 3 large skinless , boneless chicken breast halves -- trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces 1 cup green peas 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms  Set the slow cooker to the High setting . Heat the butter in a skillet over medium heat , and cook and stir the onion until browned , 5 to 10 minutes . Set the onion aside . In a large bowl , stir together cream of mushroom soup , cream of chicken soup , coconut milk , dry soup mix , curry powder , salt , pepper , and cayenne pepper until the mixture is thoroughly combined . Place the chicken into the bottom of the slow cooker , and pour the mixture over the chicken . Stir in onion , peas and mushrooms . Cook on High setting for 1 1/2 hours , then reduce heat to Low and cook an additional 1 1/2 to 2 hours . 
1 cup red lentils 1 slice ginger , 1 inch piece , peeled 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 4 teaspoons vegetable oil 4 teaspoons dried minced onion 1 teaspoon cumin seeds  Rinse lentils thoroughly and place in a medium saucepan along with ginger , turmeric , salt and cayenne pepper . Cover with about 1 inch of water and bring to a boil . Skim off any foam that forms on top of the lentils . Reduce heat and simmer , stirring occasionally , until beans are tender and soupy . Meanwhile , in a microwave safe dish combine oil , dried onion and cumin seeds . Microwave on high for 45 seconds to 1 minute ; be sure to brown , but not burn , onions . Stir into lentil mixture . 
2 medium mangoes , peeled and sliced , divided 1 (10 ounce) can coconut milk 4 teaspoons vegetable oil 4 teaspoons spicy curry paste 14 ounces skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into cubes 4 medium shallots , sliced 1 large English cucumber , seeded and sliced  Place half of the mango slices into the bowl of a blender with the coconut milk . Blend until smooth and reserve for later . Heat the oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Stir in the curry paste , and cook until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add the chicken and shallot ; cook until the chicken is done and the shallots have softened , about 5 minutes . Pour in the mango puree , and cook until heated through . To serve , stir in the remaining mango slices and cucumber . 
1/4 cup olive oil 4 cloves garlic , pressed 1 medium onions , minced 1 (14 ounce) package extra firm tofu , diced 1 (16 ounce) can coconut milk 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon red pepper paste 6 cups tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups frozen peas , thawed 1 1/2 cups chopped carrot  Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , onion , and tofu ; cover , and cook , stirring occasionally for 5 to 10 minutes . Stir in coconut milk , cumin , curry powder , ginger , salt , and red pepper paste ; bring to a simmer . Add tomato sauce , peas , and carrots ; simmer , covered , about 30 minutes . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon ginger paste 2 medium potatoes , peeled and cubed 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon garam masala salt to taste 1 pound cauliflower 1 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro  Heat the oil in a medium skillet over medium heat . Stir in the cumin seeds , garlic , and ginger paste . Cook about 1 minute until garlic is lightly browned . Add the potatoes . Season with turmeric , paprika , cumin , garam masala , and salt . Cover and continue cooking 5 to 7 minutes stirring occasionally . Mix the cauliflower and cilantro into the saucepan . Reduce heat to low and cover . Stirring occasionally , continue cooking 10 minutes , or until potatoes and cauliflower are tender . 
8 bone-in chicken breast halves , skinless salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 onions , peeled and quartered 1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon crushed garlic 1 tablespoon hot (Madras) curry powder 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (10 ounce) can coconut milk 4 whole cloves 4 pods cardamom 1 cinnamon stick salt to taste  Rinse chicken and pat dry ; season with salt and pepper to taste . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat , then saute chicken until browned . Remove chicken from skillet and set aside . Saute onions in skillet until translucent ; add ginger and garlic and saute until fragrant , then stir in curry powder . Return chicken to skillet and add tomato sauce , coconut milk , cloves , cardamom and cinnamon stick . Season with salt to taste and stir all together . Reduce heat to low and simmer until chicken is tender and cooked through (no longer pink inside) , about 20 to 25 minutes . 
1 cup dried black chickpeas (garbanzo beans) 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , divided 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 quart water 1 onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , chopped , or more to taste 1 (1 inch) piece chopped fresh ginger 3 tablespoons water 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 teaspoon cumin seeds 2 pinches asafoetida powder 4 potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 cups water 3 tablespoons tamarind paste , or more to taste  Sort and clean chickpeas and wash them under cold water ; drain . Combine chickpeas , 1/2 teaspoon salt , and baking soda in a large bowl ; add 1 quart water . Soak chickpeas for 24 hours ; drain . Combine onion , garlic , and ginger in a blender ; add 3 tablespoons water . Blend mixture at high speed until a smooth paste forms . Heat vegetable oil in a 4-quart pot over medium-high heat . Add cumin seeds and asafoetida ; cook and stir until asafoetida expands and cumin seeds darken , about 1 minute . Stir onion paste into cumin mixture , taking great care to avoid splattering . Cook and stir mixture until well mixed and fragrant , about 5 minutes . Stir chickpeas , potatoes , 1 teaspoon salt , coriander , garam masala , turmeric , and cayenne pepper into onion-cumin mixture ; add 2 cups water . Bring liquid to a boil and cover pot ; reduce heat and gently simmer for 1 hour . Stir tamarind paste into chickpea mixture ; cook , stirring occasionally , for 10 minutes more . 
1 eggplant 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 medium onion , sliced 1 teaspoon chopped fresh ginger 1 large tomato - peeled , seeded and diced 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste ground black pepper to taste 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  Preheat the oven's broiler . Rub oil on the outside of the egg plant , or coat with cooking spray . Place under the broiler , and cook until the flesh is soft and the skin is blistering off , about 30 minutes . Turn as needed for even cooking . Cut the eggplant in half lengthwise , and scoop the flesh out of the skin . Discard the skin ; chop up the flesh , and set aside . Heat the oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Add the cumin seeds , and let them crackle for a few seconds and turn golden brown . Be careful not to burn them . Add the onion , ginger and garlic ; cook and stir until tender . I don't let the onions get very brown . Stir in the tomato , and season with turmeric , ground cumin , ground coriander , cayenne pepper , salt and black pepper . Cook and stir for a few minutes . Place the eggplant pieces in the skillet , and cook for 10 to 15 minutes so some of the moisture evaporates . Taste , and adjust seasonings if desired . Garnish with fresh cilantro , and serve . 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 1/2 sweet onion , minced 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground turmeric 1 teaspoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon red chili powder 1 (14.5 ounce) can chopped tomatoes 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 teaspoon salt 1 pound cooked and peeled shrimp 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook the onion in the hot oil until translucent , about 5 minutes . Remove the skillet from the heat and allow it to cool slightly , about 2 minutes . Add the garlic , ginger , cumin , turmeric , paprika , and ground chile (see Note) to the onion and stir over low heat . Pour the tomatoes and coconut milk into the skillet ; season with salt . Cook the mixture at a simmer , stirring occasionally , about 10 minutes . Stir the shrimp , fresh cilantro , and dried cilantro into the sauce mixture ; cook another 1 minute before serving . 
1 cup whole wheat flour 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 3/4 cup hot water or as needed  In a large bowl , stir together the whole wheat flour , all-purpose flour and salt . Use a wooden spoon to stir in the olive oil and enough water to make a soft dough that is elastic but not sticky . Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface until it is smooth . Divide into 10 parts , or less if you want bigger breads . Roll each piece into a ball . Let rest for a few minutes . Heat a skillet over medium heat until hot , and grease lightly . On a lightly floured surface , use a floured rolling pin to roll out the balls of dough until very thin like a tortilla . When the pan starts smoking , put a chapati on it . Cook until the underside has brown spots , about 30 seconds , then flip and cook on the other side . Continue with remaining dough . 
1/4 cup olive oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can coconut milk 2 tablespoons ground coriander 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon ground turmeric 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cardamom 3 large Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 medium head cauliflower , chopped into bite size pieces 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 2 tablespoons garam masala  Heat oil in a large pot on medium-high heat and add onion . Cook until softened , about 4 minutes , then stir in garlic and cumin . Continue to cook until onion begins to brown . Stir in tomatoes and coconut and the coriander , salt , turmeric , cayenne pepper , cinnamon , ginger , and cardamom . Stir until mixture begins to boil , then put in the potatoes , cauliflower , and garbanzo beans . Blend well . Reduce heat to low and cover . Simmer until the potatoes are tender , 45 minutes to an hour (this will depend on the size of the potato chunks) . Sprinkle in the garam masala , stir , and cook for an additional 5 minutes . 
2 cups coconut milk 2 cups milk 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup Basmati rice 1/4 cup raisins 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/2 teaspoon rose water (optional) 1/4 cup sliced almonds , toasted 1/4 cup chopped pistachio nuts  Bring the coconut milk , milk and sugar to a boil in a large saucepan . Add Basmati rice , and simmer over low heat until the mixture thickens and the rice is tender , about 20 minutes . Stir in the raisins , cardamom and rose water , and cook for a few more minutes . Ladle into serving bowls , and garnish with almonds and pistachios . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut into bite-sized chunks 1 medium yellow onion , chopped or sliced 1 cup peeled potatoes , cut in 1-inch chunks 1 cup halved baby carrots 1 (9 ounce) package frozen baby lima beans 1/4 (12 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 cup canned coconut milk 1 cup fat-free , reduced-sodium chicken broth 1 tablespoon cumin 1 tablespoon curry powder Salt and pepper to taste 1/4 teaspoon hot sauce (such as Tabasco) , or to taste Parsley or cilantro for garnish  Put all ingredients in a large microwave-safe bowl and mix thoroughly . Cover tightly and microwave on high for 30-40 minutes . 
1 3/4 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon chili powder salt to taste 1 cup yogurt salt to taste 2 tablespoons garlic paste 1/2 tablespoon garam masala 2 tablespoons melted butter 1 tablespoon chili powder 2 tablespoons ginger paste 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon garam masala 1 tablespoon ginger paste 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 tablespoon chopped green chile pepper 2 cups tomato puree 1 tablespoon chili powder salt to taste 1 cup water 1 tablespoon honey 1/2 teaspoon dried fenugreek leaves 1 cup heavy cream  To Marinate : Place chicken in a nonporous glass dish or bowl with lemon juice , 1 tablespoon chili powder and salt . Toss to coat ; cover dish and refrigerate to marinate for 1 hour . Drain yogurt in a cloth for 15 to 20 minutes . Place in a medium bowl ; mix in salt , garlic paste , garam masala , butter , chili powder , ginger paste , lemon juice and oil . Pour yogurt mixture over chicken , replace cover and refrigerate to marinate for another 3 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place chicken on skewers . Place skewers in a 9x13 inch baking dish and bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes , or until almost cooked through . To Make Sauce : Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garam masala . When masala begins to crackle , mix in ginger paste , chopped garlic and green chile peppers . Saute until tender , then stir in tomato puree , chili powder , salt and water . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and simmer , stirring in honey and fenugreek . Place chicken in sauce mixture . Continue cooking for another 5 minutes , or until chicken is no longer pink inside . Stir in fresh cream . 
3 tablespoons butter 1 medium onion , chopped 1 pound sliced fresh okra 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper salt to taste  Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the onion , and cook until tender . Stir in the okra , and season with cumin , ginger , coriander , pepper and salt . Cook and stir for a few minutes , then reduce the heat to medium-low , and cover the pan . Cook for 20 minutes , stirring occasionally until okra is tender . 
1/4 cup plain yogurt 2 teaspoons garam masala 2 teaspoons paprika 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast - cut into 1-inch strips 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 large onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 2 green chile peppers , minced 2 Roma tomatoes , diced 1/2 cup tomato paste 1/4 cup water 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 bunch cilantro for garnish  Combine yogurt , 2 teaspoons garam masala , paprika , black pepper , 1/2 teaspoon salt , cayenne pepper , and 1/2 teaspoon coriander in a large bowl . Add chicken strips and toss to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Grease a baking sheet . Place chicken strips on the prepared baking sheet , leaving space between each piece , and bake in the preheated oven until browned and no longer pink inside , about 10 minutes . Remove and set aside . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir cumin seeds until lightly toasted and aromatic , about 3 minutes . Add onion ; cook and stir until onion begins to soften , 4 to 5 minutes . Stir in garlic , ginger , and green chiles and continue to cook until onion is browned , 15 to 20 minutes . Cook and stir tomatoes , tomato paste , and water into onion mixture until tomatoes begin to break down and incorporate into the onion mixture , about 10 minutes . Cook and stir 1 teaspoon garam masala , 1/2 teaspoon coriander , and turmeric into the tomato mixture . Mix in the cooked chicken , add cream , and stir to coat . Cover and let simmer for 10 minutes . Season with 1/2 teaspoon salt and garnish with cilantro . 
2 pounds white carp , cut into large chunks 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon red chile powder 1 tablespoon ground turmeric 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/4 cup tamarind pulp 1 cup warm water 1/4 cup oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 large onion , minced 1 1/2 tablespoons garlic paste 2 tablespoons red chile powder 2 tablespoons ground coriander 1 pinch salt to taste 1 tablespoon chopped fresh coriander (cilantro) , or to taste  Place fish in a bowl ; add 1 tablespoon vegetable oil , 1 tablespoon chile powder , turmeric , and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and allow to marinate for about 10 minutes . Place tamarind pulp in a bowl and pour warm water over it . Squeeze tamarind to extract juice . Heat 1/4 cup oil in a skillet over medium heat ; add cumin seeds and stir . Add onion to cumin ; cook and stir until onion is translucent , 5 to 10 minutes . Add garlic paste and cook for 3 minutes . Add carp , cover the skillet , and cook for 5 minutes . Mix tamarind juice into fish mixture ; bring to a boil . Turn carp pieces ; add 2 tablespoons red chile powder , coriander , and salt . Cook over low heat until sauce thickens and oil separates , about 10 minutes . Garnish with coriander leaves . 
1 head cauliflower , cut into florets 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter , cut into small pieces 1 large yellow onion , diced 1 teaspoon chopped garlic 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 quart chicken stock 1 cup heavy whipping cream salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Toss cauliflower florets with vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon salt in a bowl ; spread onto a baking sheet . Roast cauliflower in preheated oven until browned , about 25 minutes . Melt butter in a saucepan over medium high heat . Saute onions in hot butter until soft , about 5 minutes . Stir garlic into the onion and continue to cook until fragrant , about 2 minutes more ; season with curry powder , cayenne pepper , and ground turmeric . Cook the seasoned onion mixture , stirring continually , for 5 minutes more . Stir roasted cauliflower with the onion mixture . Pour stock over the cauliflower mixture . Place a cover on the saucepan and bring the stock to a boil . Immediately remove the cover , reduce heat to low , and cook at a simmer until the liquid reduces slightly , about 10 minutes . Puree mixture in the saucepan with an immersion blender until mostly smooth . Stir cream into the soup ; season with salt and pepper . Ladle soup into bowls and garnish with parsley . 
2 1/4 pounds cubed lamb meat 4 teaspoons olive oil , divided 1 brown onion , chopped 1 red potato , peeled and cubed 1/2 cup curry powder 1/2 cup water 1/3 cup coconut milk 1/3 cup drained canned chickpeas (garbanzo beans)  Place lamb in a bowl and drizzle 2 teaspoons olive oil over lamb ; stir until coated . Heat remaining 2 teaspoons olive oil in a saucepan over low heat ; cook and stir onion until softened , 10 to 15 minutes . Remove saucepan from heat and add potato to onion . Heat a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir lamb , working in small batches , until browned , about 5 minutes per batch . Transfer browned lamb to onion mixture . Stir curry into lamb-onion mixture and cook over medium heat for 1 minute . Add water to lamb-onion mixture and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover saucepan , and simmer until lamb is cooked through and potatoes are tender , about 45 minutes . Mix coconut milk and chickpeas into lamb-onion mixture and simmer until heated through , about 5 minutes . 
4 cups low-sodium vegetable broth , divided 1 small yellow onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , finely chopped 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/8 teaspoon garam masala 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 cup red lentils 1 (14.5 ounce) can no-salt-added diced tomatoes , undrained 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice (optional) 1 tablespoon crumbled feta cheese (optional)  Bring 1/2 cup broth to a boil in a pot ; reduce heat and simmer . Add onion and garlic and simmer until onion is translucent and tender , about 5 minutes . Stir coriander , cinnamon , turmeric , garam masala , and cayenne pepper into onion mixture ; simmer for 1 minute . Stir lentils into spiced onion mixture ; cook , stirring constantly , for 30 seconds . Add remaining 3 1/2 cups broth and tomatoes ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until lentils are tender , 10 to 12 minutes . Stir lemon juice into soup and garnish with feta cheese . 
1 cup yogurt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 teaspoons fresh ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons cayenne pepper 2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 3 boneless skinless chicken breasts , cut into bite-size pieces 4 long skewers 1 tablespoon butter 1 clove garlic , minced 1 jalapeno pepper , finely chopped 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  In a large bowl , combine yogurt , lemon juice , 2 teaspoons cumin , cinnamon , cayenne , black pepper , ginger , and salt . Stir in chicken , cover , and refrigerate for 1 hour . Preheat a grill for high heat . Lightly oil the grill grate . Thread chicken onto skewers , and discard marinade . Grill until juices run clear , about 5 minutes on each side . Melt butter in a large heavy skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic and jalapeno for 1 minute . Season with 2 teaspoons cumin , paprika , and 3 teaspoons salt . Stir in tomato sauce and cream . Simmer on low heat until sauce thickens , about 20 minutes . Add grilled chicken , and simmer for 10 minutes . Transfer to a serving platter , and garnish with fresh cilantro . 
