4 1/2 pounds corned beef brisket 5 black peppercorns 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 onion , peeled and left whole 2 bay leaves 1 pinch salt 1 small head cabbage , cored and cut into wedges 6 large potatoes , quartered 4 large carrots , peeled and sliced 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons butter  In a 6 quart Dutch oven , Place the beef brisket , peppercorns , garlic powder , onion , bay leaves and salt . Fill pan with water to cover everything plus one inch . Bring to a boil and cook for 20 minutes . Skim off any residue that floats to the top . Reduce heat to a simmer and cook for 2 to 3 hours , until meat can be pulled apart with a fork . Once the meat is done , add the cabbage , potatoes and carrots , pressing them down into the liquid . Simmer for an additional 15 minutes or until the potatoes are tender . Skim off any oil that comes to the surface . Stir in the butter and parsley . Remove the pot from the heat . Remove meat from the pot and place onto a serving dish and let rest for 15 minutes . Also remove vegetables to a bowl and keep warm . Slice meat on the diagonal against the grain . Serve meat on a platter and spoon juices over meat and vegetables . 
2 pounds lean beef stew meat , cut into 1-inch cubes 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 large onions , chopped 1 clove garlic , crushed 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 1/2 cups Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 2 cups chopped carrot 1 sprig fresh thyme 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley for garnish  Toss the beef cubes with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil . In a separate bowl , stir together the flour , salt , pepper , and cayenne pepper . Dredge the beef in this to coat . Heat the remaining oil in a deep skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat . Add the beef , and brown on all sides . Add the onions , and garlic . Stir the tomato paste into a small amount of water to dilute ; pour into the pan and stir to blend . Reduce the heat to medium , cover , and cook for 5 minutes . Pour 1/2 cup of the beer into the pan , and as it begins to boil , scrape any bits of food from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . This adds a lot of flavor to the broth . Pour in the rest of the beer , and add the carrots and thyme . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer for 2 to 3 hours , stirring occasionally . Taste and adjust seasoning before serving . Garnish with chopped parsley . 
2 (10.75 ounce) cans condensed cream of chicken soup 3 cups water 1 cup chopped celery 2 onions , quartered 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 5 carrots , sliced 1 (10 ounce) package frozen green peas 4 potatoes , quartered 3 cups baking mix 1 1/3 cups milk  In large , heavy pot , combine soup , water , chicken , celery , onion , salt , poultry seasoning , and pepper . Cover and cook over low heat about 1 1/2 hours . Add potatoes and carrots ; cover and cook another 30 minutes . Remove chicken from pot , shred it , and return to pot . Add peas and cook only 5 minutes longer . Add dumplings . To make dumplings : Mix baking mix and milk until a soft dough forms . Drop by tablespoonfuls onto BOILING stew . Simmer covered for 10 minutes , then uncover and simmer an additional 10 minutes . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/3 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 egg , lightly beaten 2 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup butter , melted  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Combine flour , baking powder , sugar , salt and baking soda . Blend egg and buttermilk together , and add all at once to the flour mixture . Mix just until moistened . Stir in butter . Pour into prepared pan . Bake for 65 to 70 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the bread comes out clean . Cool on a wire rack . Wrap in foil for several hours , or overnight , for best flavor . 
4 pounds corned beef brisket 1 cup brown sugar 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer (e.g . Guinness®)  Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Rinse the beef completely and pat dry . Place the brisket on rack in a roasting pan or Dutch oven . Rub the brown sugar on the corned beef to coat entire beef , including the bottom . Pour the bottle of stout beer around , and gently over the beef to wet the sugar . Cover , and place in preheated oven . Bake for 2 1/2 hours . Allow to rest 5 minutes before slicing . 
1/2 cup white sugar 4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 3/4 teaspoon salt 3 cups raisins 1 tablespoon caraway seeds 2 eggs , lightly beaten 1 1/4 cups buttermilk 1 cup sour cream  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9 inch round cast iron skillet or a 9 inch round baking or cake pan . In a mixing bowl , combine flour (reserving 1 tablespoon) , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , salt , raisins and caraway seeds . In a small bowl , blend eggs , buttermilk and sour cream . Stir the liquid mixture into flour mixture just until flour is moistened . Knead dough in bowl about 10 to 12 strokes . Dough will be sticky . Place the dough in the prepared skillet or pan and pat down . Cut a 4x3/4 inch deep slit in the top of the bread . Dust with reserved flour Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 65 to 75 minutes . Let cool and turn bread onto a wire rack . 
2 1/2 pounds potatoes , peeled and cubed 4 slices bacon 1/2 small head cabbage , chopped 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup milk salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup butter , melted  Place potatoes in a saucepan with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook for 15 to 20 minutes , until tender . Place bacon in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain , reserving drippings , crumble and set aside . In the reserved drippings , saute the cabbage and onion until soft and translucent . Putting a lid on the pan helps the vegetables cook faster . Drain the cooked potatoes , mash with milk and season with salt and pepper . Fold in the bacon , cabbage , and onions , then transfer the mixture to a large serving bowl . Make a well in the center , and pour in the melted butter . Serve immediately . 
1 1/2 pounds thickly sliced bacon , diced 6 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup water 4 cups beef stock 2 teaspoons white sugar 4 cups diced carrots 2 large onions , cut into bite-size pieces 3 potatoes 1 teaspoon dried thyme 2 bay leaves 1 cup white wine  Place bacon in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain , crumble , and set aside . Put lamb , salt , pepper , and flour in large mixing bowl . Toss to coat meat evenly . Brown meat in frying pan with bacon fat . Place meat into stock pot (leave 1/4 cup of fat in frying pan) . Add the garlic and yellow onion and saute till onion begins to become golden . Deglaze frying pan with 1/2 cup water and add the garlic-onion mixture to the stock pot with bacon pieces , beef stock , and sugar . Cover and simmer for 1 1/2 hours . Add carrots , onions , potatoes , thyme , bay leaves , and wine to pot . Reduce heat , and simmer covered for 20 minutes until vegetables are tender . 
4 slices bacon , cut into small pieces 2 1/2 pounds boneless beef chuck , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 teaspoon salt , or more to taste freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 onions , coarsely chopped 1/2 teaspoon salt 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 (14.9 ounce) can dark beer (such as Guinness®) 1/4 cup tomato paste 4 sprigs fresh thyme 3 carrots , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 stalks celery , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chicken stock , or as needed to cover 4 cups mashed potatoes (optional)  Cook and stir bacon in a heavy skillet over medium-high heat until bacon is browned and crisp , 3 to 4 minutes . Turn off heat and transfer bacon into a large stew pot , reserving bacon fat in the skillet . Season beef chuck cubes generously with 1 teaspoon salt and black pepper to taste . Turn heat to high under skillet and sear beef pieces in the hot fat on both sides until browned , about 5 minutes . Place beef in stew pot with bacon , leaving fat in skillet . Turn heat down to medium ; cook and stir onions in the retained fat in the skillet until lightly browned , 5 to 8 minutes ; season with a large pinch of salt . Cook garlic with onions until soft , about 1 minute ; pour beer into skillet and stir with a wooden spoon , scraping up and dissolving any browned bits of food into the liquid . Pour cooking liquid from skillet into the stew pot . Stir in tomato paste , thyme sprigs , carrots , celery , sugar , 1/2 teaspoon black pepper , and enough chicken broth to cover . Bring stew to a gentle simmer , stirring to combine ; reduce heat to low and cover pot . Simmer stew until beef is fork-tender , about 2 hours . Stir stew occasionally and skim fat or foam if desired . Remove cover and raise heat to medium-high . Bring stew to a low boil and cook until stew has slightly thickened , 15 to 20 minutes . Remove and discard thyme sprigs and adjust salt and pepper to taste . Arrange mashed potatoes in a ring in a serving bowl ; ladle stew into the center of the potatoes . 
1 (5 pound) flat-cut corned beef brisket 1 tablespoon browning sauce (such as Kitchen Bouquet®) , or as desired 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , sliced 6 cloves garlic , sliced 2 tablespoons water  Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C) . Discard any flavoring packet from corned beef . Brush brisket with browning sauce on both sides . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat and brown brisket on both sides in the hot oil , 5 to 8 minutes per side . Place brisket on a rack set in a roasting pan . Scatter onion and garlic slices over brisket and add water to roasting pan . Cover pan tightly with aluminum foil . Roast in the preheated oven until meat is tender , about 6 hours . 
2 teaspoons butter 1 (15 ounce) can chicken broth 1 head cabbage , cored and coarsely chopped 1 pinch salt and pepper to taste  Bring the butter and chicken broth to a boil in a large skillet . Reduce heat to low and add the cabbage . Cover and cook over low heat to steam the cabbage for about 45 minutes , stirring frequently , or until cabbage is tender and sweet . Season with salt and pepper and serve . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 1 pint sour cream 1 cup raisins  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease two 8x4 inch loaf pans . Mix the flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder and salt . Add the eggs , sour cream and raisins and mix until just combined . Distribute batter evenly between the two pans . Bake loaves at 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) for 1 hour . 
1 pound cabbage 1 pound potatoes 2 leeks 1 cup milk salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch ground mace 1/2 cup butter  In a large saucepan , boil cabbage until tender ; remove and chop or blend well . Set aside and keep warm . Boil potatoes until tender . Remove from heat and drain . Chop leeks , green parts as well as white , and simmer them in just enough milk to cover , until they are soft . Season and mash potatoes well . Stir in cooked leeks and milk . Blend in the kale or cabbage and heat until the whole is a pale green fluff . Make a well in the center and pour in the melted butter . Mix well . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon butter 1 onion , diced 2 pounds lean ground lamb 1/3 cup all-purpose flour salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 teaspoons minced fresh rosemary 1 teaspoon paprika 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon ketchup 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 1/2 cups water , or as needed 1 (12 ounce) package frozen peas and carrots , thawed 2 1/2 pounds Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and halved 1 tablespoon butter 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper 1/4 cup cream cheese 1/4 pound Irish cheese (such as Dubliner®) , shredded salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 egg yolk 2 tablespoons milk  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place olive oil and butter in Dutch oven over medium heat . Stir in onion and ground lamb ; brown the meat , breaking it up into small crumbles as it cooks , about 10 minutes . Stir in flour until incorporated , then mix in salt , black pepper , rosemary , paprika , cinnamon , ketchup , and garlic ; cook and stir until garlic is fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in water and scrape up any brown bits from the bottom of the Dutch oven . Reduce heat to medium-low and bring mixture to a simmer ; cook and stir until thick , about 5-6 minutes . Remove lamb mixture from heat and stir in peas and carrots until combined . Spread lamb mixture into the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish and set aside . Place potatoes into a large pan of salted water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes . Drain well and return potatoes to pan . Mash butter , cayenne pepper , cream cheese , and Irish cheese into the potatoes . Mash until combined and potatoes are smooth . Season to taste with salt and black pepper . Whisk together egg yolk and milk in a small bowl ; stir into the mashed potato mixture . Top the lamb mixture in the baking dish with the mashed potatoes and spread evenly to cover . Bake in the preheated oven until the top is golden brown and sauce is bubbling up around the edges , 25 to 30 minutes . 
4 1/2 pounds corned beef , rinsed 1 cup water 1 cup apricot preserves 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons soy sauce  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat a large pan with non-stick cooking spray . Place corned beef in dish and add water . Cover tightly with aluminum foil and bake for 2 hours ; drain liquid . In a small bowl combine apricot preserves , brown sugar , and soy sauce . Spread the apricot mixture evenly over the corned beef . Bake uncovered at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) 25 to 30 more minutes , or until the meat is tender ; basting occasionally with pan drippings . Slice corned beef across grain and serve . 
1/4 cup butter , softened 1/2 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 cups confectioners' sugar 2 1/2 cups flaked coconut 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon  In a medium bowl , beat the butter and cream cheese together until smooth . Add the vanilla and confectioners' sugar ; beat until smooth . Using your hands if necessary , mix in the coconut . Roll into balls or potato shapes , and roll in the cinnamon . Place onto a cookie sheet and chill to set . If desired , roll potatoes in cinnamon again for darker color . 
Irish Stew : 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (3 pound) beef chuck roast , trimmed of fat and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 cup coarsely chopped onion 1 cup coarsely chopped carrot 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle dark beer 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce Colcannon : 3 slices bacon 2 pounds russet potatoes , peeled and cut into chunks 2 cups thinly sliced cabbage 1/4 cup milk , warmed 2 tablespoons butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Heat the vegetable oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until very hot , and brown the meat in 2 batches , stirring to brown the cubes on all sides . Return all the meat to the Dutch oven , sprinkle with flour , and stir lightly to coat the meat with flour . Stir in onion , carrots , dark beer , bay leaves , thyme , 1 teaspoon salt , 1/2 teaspoon pepper , garlic , and Worcestershire sauce . Bring the mixture to a boil , and cover . Place the Dutch oven into the preheated oven , and cook for 45 minutes ; uncover , stir the stew , and cook until the beef is very tender and the liquid is reduced by half , about 45 more minutes . Place the bacon in a large , deep skillet , and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate . Crumble the bacon and set aside . About 30 minutes before the stew is ready , make the colcannon : Place the potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Place the cabbage into a microwave-safe bowl , and add 1 or 2 tablespoons of water . Cover and microwave on High for about 2 1/2 minutes ; uncover (watch out for steam) and stir the cabbage . Cover and microwave for about 2 1/2 more minutes , until the cabbage is slightly tender but not mushy . Drain excess liquid , and set the cabbage aside , covered . Place the potatoes into a large bowl , and add milk , butter , 1/2 teaspoon of salt , and 1/4 teaspoon of pepper . Beat the potatoes with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy . Stir in the cabbage , crumbled bacon , and parsley until well combined . To serve , place a scoop of colcannon onto a plate , make a hollow , and fill with braised beef stew . 
1 (5 1/2 pound) corned beef brisket 2 tablespoons pickling spice 1 large orange , sliced in rounds 2 stalks celery , sliced 1 large onion , sliced 1/2 cup cold water 6 tablespoons margarine , divided 1 large head cabbage , cored and sliced 1 cup Golden Delicious apples , cored and quartered with peel 1/4 cup cold water  Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Line a 9x13 inch roasting pan with aluminum foil , leaving enough extra extending over the sides to cover and seal in the roast . Rinse the brisket , and pat dry . Rub with pickling spice , and place in the prepared roasting pan . Arrange celery , orange and onion slices on and around the roast . Pour in 1/2 cup of water , and wrap aluminum foil up over the roast tightly , making sure the ends are sealed . Bake for about 4 hours in the preheated oven , or until meat is tender . About 45 minutes before the roasts time is up , heat 3 tablespoons of margarine and 1/4 cup of water in a large pot . Add cabbage and apples , cover , and simmer over low heat for about 30 minutes . Occasionally shake the pot so that nothing sticks to the bottom . Serve with remaining margarine and sliced corned beef . 
2 cups peeled and shredded potatoes 1/2 cup melted butter 2 eggs , beaten 1 teaspoon minced onion 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon paprika 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter a 1.5 quart baking dish . In a medium bowl , combine the potatoes , butter , eggs , onion , salt and paprika . Mix well . Place potato mixture into the prepared baking dish and pour milk over top . Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes . Sprinkle top with cheese , return to oven and bake until cheese melts and is slightly browned . 
2 teaspoons vegetable oil 1 pound lean beef stew meat 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 small onion , chopped 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 6 cloves garlic , minced 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 cups beef broth 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer 4 cups sliced carrot 2 large potatoes , peeled and diced 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon cold water 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley  Heat oil in a Dutch oven or large pot over medium-high heat . Coat beef cubes with flour , shaking off the excess . Fry beef cubes until browned on all sides . Remove from the pot . Add the onion , mushrooms , and garlic to the pot , and cook stirring constantly until onion is tender , about 3 minutes . Return beef to the pot , and stir in tomato paste , beef broth , and beer . Add potatoes and carrots , cover , and simmer over low heat for about 1 hour . Mix together the cornstarch and cold water . Stir into the stew , and simmer until thickened . Sprinkle with parsley and serve . 
1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vinegar 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon baking soda  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a cup or small bowl , stir together the milk and vinegar . Let stand 10 minutes , or until curdled . In a medium bowl , stir together the flour , salt and baking soda . Stir in the curdled milk mixture until smooth . Scrape the dough out of the bowl onto a floured surface , and shape into a disc . Place the disc into a cast iron skillet . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the crust feels firm to the touch . 
1/2 pound Irish bacon , diced 2 large potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 cup chicken stock , or as needed Salt and black pepper to taste 2 cups thinly sliced dark green Savoy cabbage leaves  Place bacon in a large , deep stockpot or saucepan . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain off any excess fat . Stir in potatoes , tomatoes , and enough chicken stock to cover . Season with salt and pepper . Bring to a boil , reduce heat and let simmer for 20 minutes , or until potatoes are tender . Stir in cabbage and allow the soup to simmer for a few minutes longer before serving . 
1 cup milk 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt  Stir the milk and vinegar together , and allow to stand until curdled , about 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Grease a baking sheet . In a bowl , mix together the flour , sugar , baking soda , and salt . Gradually stir the soured milk into the flour mixture until the dough just comes together , and turn the dough out onto a well-floured surface . Knead a few times , and shape into a round . Place the dough onto the prepared baking sheet . With a sharp knife , cut an X shape into the top of the dough to release steam and help the bread keep its round shape . Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown , about 45 minutes . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 2/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup margarine 5 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons caraway seed 2 1/2 cups raisins 2 cups buttermilk 3 tablespoons milk (optional) 3 tablespoons sour cream (optional)  Combine flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a large bowl . Use fingers or a pastry cutter to press in butter or margarine , like a pie crust . When mixture looks fine and crumbly , add raisins and caraway seeds . Mix together and then add eggs , buttermilk , and sour cream . If mixture is not moist , add milk . Pour into two greased and lightly floured loaf pans or a frying pan . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 45 to 60 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the bread comes out clean . 
1/2 cup butter , softened 1 cup white sugar 2 eggs 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup milk 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 9-inch round pan . In a medium bowl , cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy . Beat in the eggs , one at a time , mixing until fully incorporated ; stir in the vanilla . Combine the flour , baking powder and salt ; stir into the batter alternately with the milk . If the batter is too stiff , a tablespoon or two of milk may be added . Spread the batter evenly into the prepared pan . Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in the preheated oven , until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean . Cool in pan on a wire rack , then turn out onto a serving plate . Dust with confectioners' sugar right before serving . 
4 cups whole wheat flour 1 cup bread flour 1/3 cup rolled oats 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/2 cups buttermilk  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Lightly grease two baking sheets . In a large bowl , stir together whole wheat flour , white flour , rolled oats , baking soda and salt . Gently mix in the buttermilk until a soft dough is formed . Knead very lightly . Divide dough into 4 pieces ; form into rounded flat loaves . Mark each loaf with an 'X' and place on prepared baking sheets . Bake in preheated oven until golden brown , about 30 to 45 minutes . 
2 pounds potatoes , peeled and halved 1 cup milk 1 bunch green onions , thinly sliced 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 cup butter 1 pinch freshly ground black pepper to taste  Place potatoes into large pot , and fill with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain well . Return to very low heat and allow the potatoes to dry out for a few minutes . (It helps if you place a clean dish towel over the potatoes to absorb any remaining moisture.) Meanwhile , heat the milk and green onions gently in a saucepan , until warm . Mash the potatoes , salt and butter together until smooth . Stir in the milk and green onion until evenly mixed . Season with freshly ground black pepper . Serve piping hot in bowls . Set out some extra butter for individuals to add to their servings . 
cooking spray 1 1/2 pounds russet potatoes , peeled and cut into 1 1/2-inch thick slices 6 tablespoons butter , cut into pieces 1 cup milk salt and pepper , to taste 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 pound ground turkey 1 medium onion , chopped 2 (1 ounce) packages instant chicken gravy mix 1 cup water 1 (16 ounce) package frozen peas and carrots , thawed 2 cups shredded cheese of choice  Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium baking dish . Cover potatoes with water in a saucepan and boil for 20 to 30 minutes , or until fork-tender . Drain and beat until smooth with an electric mixer . Add butter , milk , and salt and pepper to taste ; beat to desired consistency . Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Cook and stir turkey and onion until turkey is fully cooked . Add gravy mix and water ; stir often , until gravy is thick and bubbly . Season with salt and pepper . Add turkey mixture to the baking dish . Next , layer the peas and carrots , and top with the mashed potatoes . Top with a layer of shredded cheese . Bake in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes , or until cheese is melted and the potatoes are golden on the top . 
1 cup regular rolled oats , plus additional 2 cups whole wheat flour 1/2 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons baking soda 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup melted butter 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 cup buttermilk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Guinness® beer  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Grease an 8x8 inch baking pan . Mix together the oats , flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , and salt in a bowl . In a separate large bowl , stir together the butter , vanilla , buttermilk , and Guinness(R) beer . Pour the flour mixture into the beer mixture , and gently stir until well blended . Pour batter into the prepared baking pan , and sprinkle with additional oats if desired . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , then turn the temperature down to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) , and bake for an additional 30 minutes . Turn the oven off , open the door , and allow to cool for 30 minutes in the oven before turning out onto a wire rack . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 pounds beef chuck , cut into 1 1/2-inch cubes 1 pound carrots , peeled and cut into 1-inch chunks 6 large potatoes , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 white onion , cut into large chunks 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups beef broth 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer (e.g . Guinness®) 1 tablespoon cold water 1 tablespoon cornstarch  Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Toss beef cubes with flour to coat , then fry in the hot oil until browned . Place the carrots , potatoes , onion and garlic in a large slow cooker . Place the meat on top of the vegetables . Mix together the beef broth and tomato paste and pour into the slow cooker along with the beer . Cover and cook on High for 6 hours or Low for 8 hours . During the last hour before serving , dissolve the cornstarch in cold water and then stir into the broth . Simmer on the High setting for a few minutes to thicken . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 5 large Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch cubes 1 large carrot , coarsely shredded 2 pounds cooked corned beef , cubed 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme leaves salt to taste (optional) 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste  Melt butter with the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook the onion just until it begins to brown , about 8 minutes ; stir in the potatoes and carrot , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cubed corned beef , parsley , thyme , salt , and pepper . Let the mixture cook until hash is crisp and browned , stirring often , 10 to 15 more minutes . 
4 cups bread flour , plus more for dusting 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon baking powder 6 tablespoons butter , softened 1 1/4 cups buttermilk 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 3/4 cup finely chopped onion 3/4 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper . In a large mixing bowl , whisk together bread flour , salt , and baking powder until thoroughly combined . Beat in the butter , buttermilk , and confectioners' sugar to make a dough ; gently mix in the onion and Cheddar cheese . Divide dough in half , and shape each half into a ball . Place the loaves onto the prepared baking sheet , and gently flatten to about 2 inches thick . Dust each loaf with flour . Bake on a preheated oven until browned , about 30 minutes . Cool on racks for a few minutes ; serve warm . 
1 (5 1/2 pound) corned beef brisket 2 large onions 15 small white (Irish) potatoes 10 carrots , cut into 1 inch pieces 2 heads cabbage , cored and cut into wedges  Rinse the beef brisket under cold water , and place in a large pot . Add enough water to cover the roast by 6 inches . Peel the onions , and place them in the pot with the roast . Bring to a boil , and cook for about 30 minutes at a rolling boil . Reduce heat to medium-low so that the water is at a gentle boil , cover , and cook for 3 1/2 hours . Remove the lid from the brisket . Remove onions , and cut into wedges . Return them to the pot . Add carrots to the pot , then place the cabbage over the roast . Place the potatoes on top of the cabbage . Place the lid back on the pot , and cook for another 30 minutes , until potatoes are tender . The potatoes should be immersed in the water by now , but if not , keep the lid on so they can steam . Remove the vegetables from the pot , and place in a separate serving bowl . Keep the corned beef in the pot until ready to slice and serve because it dries out quickly . 
18 small red new potatoes 6 cups chicken broth 3 leeks , chopped 3 tablespoons butter 2 cups milk salt and pepper to taste  Place potatoes into a large saucepan with water to cover . Bring to a boil and cook until tender . Meanwhile , saute leeks in butter until translucent . When potatoes are done , skin them while they are still hot and cut them into bite sized pieces . Place potatoes into a stock pot with chicken broth and leeks . season with salt and pepper . Cook over medium heat until simmering , then remove from heat and stir in milk . Serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 large onion , sliced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 parsnip , peeled and cut into large chunks (optional) 4 cups water , or as needed 3 large potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary (optional) 1 cup coarsely chopped leeks chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)  Heat oil over medium heat in a large stockpot or Dutch oven . Add lamb pieces and cook , stirring gently , until evenly browned . Season with salt and pepper . Add the onion , carrots , and parsnips and cook gently alongside the meat for a few minutes . Stir in the water . Cover and bring to a boil before turning the heat down to low . Simmer for 1 hour or longer , depending on the cut of meat you used and if it is tender yet . Stir in potatoes , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , before adding leeks and rosemary . Continue to simmer uncovered , until potatoes are tender but still whole . Serve piping hot in bowls garnished with fresh parsley . 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup butter , cut into pieces 1 cup raisins 1/2 cup currants 2 teaspoons caraway seed (optional) 3/4 cup milk 3 tablespoons apple cider vinegar  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Grease 2 baking sheets . Stir together the flour , baking soda , baking powder , salt , and sugar in a large bowl until evenly blended . Cut in the butter using a pastry blender or your hands until the mixture resembles coarse cornmeal . Stir in the raisins , currants , and caraway seeds , then make a well in the center and pour in the milk and vinegar . Stir with a spoon until the dry ingredients are moistened . Turn the dough out onto a well floured work surface , and knead gently 8 to 10 times . Divide the dough into two balls , and place onto the prepared baking sheets . Bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes , then reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) , and bake until the top of the bread is golden brown , about 15 minutes more . 
1 cup Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 cup butter 3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 3/4 teaspoon salt 2 large eggs 2/3 cup sour cream 2/3 cup heavy whipping cream 8 ounces bittersweet chocolate , chopped 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon Irish whiskey , or more to taste 1/2 cup butter , softened 3 cups confectioners' sugar , or more as needed 3 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) , or more to taste  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 24 muffin cups with paper liners . Bring Irish stout beer and 1 cup butter to a boil in a saucepan and set aside until butter has melted , stirring occasionally . Mix in cocoa powder until smooth . Whisk together flour , sugar , baking soda , and salt in a bowl until thoroughly combined . Beat eggs with sour cream in a large bowl with an electric mixer on low until well combined . Slowly beat in the beer mixture , then the flour mixture ; beat until the batter is smooth . Divide batter between the prepared cupcake cups , filling each cup about 2/3 full . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean , about 17 minutes . Cool the cupcakes completely . Cut cores out of the center of each cupcake with a sharp paring knife . Discard cores . Bring cream to a simmer in a saucepan over low heat ; stir in bittersweet chocolate until melted . Mix in 2 tablespoons butter and Irish whiskey until butter is melted ; let mixture cool to room temperature . Filling will thicken as it cools . Spoon the filling into the cored cupcakes . For frosting , whip 1/2 cup butter in a bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy , 2 to 3 minutes . Set mixer to low speed and slowly beat in confectioners' sugar , 1 cup at a time , until frosting is smooth and spreadable . Beat in the Irish cream liqueur ; adjust thickness of frosting with more confectioners' sugar if needed . Spread frosting on filled cupcakes . 
1 (4 pound) corned beef brisket with spice packet 3 quarts water 1 onion , quartered 3 carrots , cut into large chunks 3 stalks celery , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 teaspoon salt 2 pounds red potatoes , halved 1 small head cabbage , cut into eighths  Combine corned beef and spice packet contents , water , onion , carrots , celery , and salt together in a large pot or Dutch oven ; bring to a simmer , skimming off any foam that rises to the surface . Cover the pot , reduce heat to low , and simmer until meat is almost fork-tender , about 3 hours . Add potatoes and simmer , uncovered , until potatoes are almost tender , about 30 minutes more . Place cabbage pieces on top of and around meat , cover the pot , and simmer until cabbage is tender , 20 to 30 minutes more . Remove meat to a cutting board and let rest 10 to 15 minutes . Cut across the grain and serve in a bowl ; ladle vegetables and broth over the top . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup dried currants 1/4 cup buttermilk 1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon caraway seed  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine dry ingredients in a mixing bowl . With a pastry blender , cut in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal . Stir in currants . Mix in beaten egg . Pour in milk and mix with a fork to make a soft dough (may need a little more milk) . On a floured surface , shape dough into a ball and knead lightly 5 or 6 times . Roll out dough to 1/4 inch thick and cut into squares and triangles with a knife (approximately 2 inches in diameter) . Bake for 12 to 14 minutes or until slightly browned . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 large onion , sliced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 parsnip , peeled and cut into large chunks (optional) 4 cups water , or as needed 3 large potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary (optional) 1 cup coarsely chopped leeks chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)  Heat oil over medium heat in a large stockpot or Dutch oven . Add lamb pieces and cook , stirring gently , until evenly browned . Season with salt and pepper . Add the onion , carrots , and parsnips and cook gently alongside the meat for a few minutes . Stir in the water . Cover and bring to a boil before turning the heat down to low . Simmer for 1 hour or longer , depending on the cut of meat you used and if it is tender yet . Stir in potatoes , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , before adding leeks and rosemary . Continue to simmer uncovered , until potatoes are tender but still whole . Serve piping hot in bowls garnished with fresh parsley . 
4 cups apple juice 1/2 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 2 (3 pound) corned beef briskets with spice packets 20 small red potatoes , scrubbed 4 carrots , cut into chunks 2 onions , cut into 8 wedges 1 head cabbage , cored and cut into large chunks  Pour the apple juice into a large slow cooker , and mix in the brown sugar and mustard , stirring until the brown sugar has dissolved . Mix in the contents of the spice packets , and lay the briskets into the apple juice mixture . Top with red potatoes , carrots , onions , and cabbage chunks . Push all ingredients into the liquid . Cover and cook on High until corned beef is very tender , 4 to 5 hours ; or cook on Low for 8 to 10 hours . Slice meat thinly across the grain , and serve with vegetables . 
6 slices bacon , diced 1/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground allspice 2 1/2 pounds cubed beef stew meat 4 carrots , peeled and cut diagonally into 1-inch pieces 4 large onions , cut into eighths 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1/4 cup minced fresh parsley 1 teaspoon dried rosemary , crushed 1 teaspoon dried marjoram 1 bay leaf 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer  Place the bacon in a large nonstick skillet , and cook over medium heat until crisp and brown . Remove the bacon pieces and set aside , leaving the drippings in the skillet . Place the flour , salt , black pepper , and allspice in a large plastic zipper bag , and shake a few times to combine . Place the beef stew meat into the bag , and shake to coat the meat with flour mixture . Place the meat pieces in the skillet with the bacon drippings , and cook the meat until brown on all sides . Remove the browned meat to a slow cooker , and add the carrots , onions , garlic , parsley , rosemary , marjoram , and bay leaf to the cooker . Pour the beer into the skillet , and bring to a boil over medium-low heat , scraping all the browned bits of flavor from the bottom of the skillet . Pour the beer into the slow cooker , over the meat and vegetables . Cover , and cook on Medium setting until the meat is very tender , 4 to 5 hours . Before serving , remove the bay leaf , and sprinkle the stew with the reserved bacon pieces . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk  Preheat heavy based flat griddle or skillet on medium to low heat . Place flour and salt in a bowl and sift in baking soda . Make a well in the center , and pour in the buttermilk . Work quickly to mix into dough and knead very lightly on a well floured surface . Form into a flattened circle , about 1/2 inch thick and cut into quarters with a floured knife . Sprinkle a little flour over the base of the hot pan and cook the farls for 6 to 8 minutes on each side or until golden brown . 
1 cup bread flour 2 3/4 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda 2 teaspoons white sugar 1/4 cup margarine 2 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 tablespoon buttermilk 1 teaspoon white sugar  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Prepare a shallow baking pan with cooking spray . Sift together the bread flour , whole wheat flour , salt , baking soda , and 2 teaspoons sugar in a bowl . Cut the margarine into the flour mixture until pieces are nearly indistinguishable . Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour in the oil and buttermilk . Stir with a spatula until dry mixture is completely moistened . Move the dough to a lightly-floured surface . Lightly knead the dough for no more than 1 minute . Place the dough into the prepared pan ; pat down and around to form a round loaf . Cut a cross into the top of the loaf with your finger . Brush the top with 1 tablespoon buttermilk ; sprinkle 1 teaspoon sugar over the top of the loaf . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) ; rotate pan and bake another 30 minutes . Allow loaf to cool on a wire rack before slicing . 
1 pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 1 (4 pound) whole chicken , deboned and cut into bite size pieces 4 slices cooked ham 4 leeks , chopped 1 onion , chopped salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch ground mace 1 1/4 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon milk 1/2 cup heavy cream  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish , layer the chicken , ham , leeks and onion a couple of times each until the dish is full . Season each layer with a little salt , pepper and mace . Pour the chicken stock over the layers , and dampen the edges of the dish . Roll the pie pastry out large enough to cover the top of the dish , and place over the top . Crimp the sides down with a fork , and trim the excess from the edges . Cut a round hole in the center of the pastry . Roll dough scraps out and cut into strips . Use the strips to form a design , and place lightly over the hole . Brush the entire top with milk . Bake for 35 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until chicken is cooked through . If the top crust is getting too brown , cover it with parchment or aluminum foil . While the pie is baking , heat the cream over low heat . When the pie is cooked , remove from the oven , and carefully remove the design from the hole . Pour the cream into the hole , and replace the design . Let stand for a few minutes before serving . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 4 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup margarine , softened 1 cup buttermilk 1 egg 1/4 cup butter , melted 1/4 cup buttermilk  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a large baking sheet . In a large bowl , mix together flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , salt and margarine . Stir in 1 cup of buttermilk and egg . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead slightly . Form dough into a round and place on prepared baking sheet . In a small bowl , combine melted butter with 1/4 cup buttermilk ; brush loaf with this mixture . Use a sharp knife to cut an 'X' into the top of the loaf . Bake in preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center of the loaf comes out clean , 45 to 50 minutes . Check for doneness after 30 minutes . You may continue to brush the loaf with the butter mixture while it bakes . 
