9 eggs 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 1/2 cup mayonnaise 2 teaspoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons wasabi paste 2 teaspoons rice wine vinegar 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onions 4 tablespoons panko bread crumbs  | Place eggs in a saucepan ; cover with water . Bring to a boil , remove from heat , and let eggs stand in hot water for 15 minutes . Remove eggs from hot water , cool under cold running water , and peel . Place sesame seeds in a dry skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir until lightly browned , about 3 minutes . Remove to cool on a plate lined with a paper towel . Cut each egg in half lengthwise ; place egg yolks into a food processor with mayonnaise , soy sauce , wasabi paste , and rice vinegar . Process until smooth ; place green onion and panko bread crumbs into yolk mixture and pulse just enough to mix evenly . Arrange egg white halves on a serving platter ; spoon yolk mixture into whites . Sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds . 
1/2 cup sesame seeds 8 ounces dried soba noodles 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1 tablespoon white sugar 2 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dark sesame oil 5 green onions , chopped 3 cups broccoli florets  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Pour the sesame seeds onto a rimmed baking sheet . Toast the seeds in the oven for 10 to 12 minutes , until they are a rich brown around the edges . Meanwhile , bring a large pot of salted water to a boil . Add the noodles and cook them for 5 to 6 minutes , or until they are just tender . Drain them , rinse them well with cold water , and drain them again . In a large mixing bowl , mix together the vinegar , sugar , soy sauce , garlic , sesame oil and green onions . Add the noodles , and the toasted sesame seeds . Toss well , then stir in the broccoli . Let the dish sit for 30 minutes at room temperature before serving . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/2 inch thickness salt and pepper to taste 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 egg , beaten 1 cup panko bread crumbs 1 cup oil for frying , or as needed  | Season the chicken breasts on both sides with salt and pepper . Place the flour , egg and panko crumbs into separate shallow dishes . Coat the chicken breasts in flour , shaking off any excess . Dip them into the egg , and then press into the panko crumbs until well coated on both sides . Heat 1/4 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Place chicken in the hot oil , and cook 3 or 4 minutes per side , or until golden brown . 
1 tablespoon canola oil 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 pound fresh green beans , washed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon toasted sesame seeds  | Warm a large skillet or wok over medium heat . When the skillet is hot , pour in canola and sesame oils , then place whole green beans into the skillet . Stir the beans to coat with oil . Cook until the beans are bright green and slightly browned in spots , about 10 minutes . Remove from heat , and stir in soy sauce ; cover , and let sit about 5 minutes . Transfer to a serving platter , and sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds . 
4 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 2 onions , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound ground beef 3/4 pound spicy Italian sausage , casing removed 1 (14.5 ounce) can peeled and diced tomatoes with juice 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle dark beer 1 cup strong brewed coffee 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 1/4 cup chili powder 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon wasabi paste 3 (15 ounce) cans kidney beans 2 Anaheim chile peppers , chopped 1 serrano pepper , chopped 1 habanero pepper , sliced  | Place 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pot and place the pot over medium heat . Cook and stir the onions , garlic , beef and sausage until meats are browned . Pour in the tomatoes , beer , coffee , tomato paste and broth . Season with chili powder , cumin , sugar , oregano , cayenne , coriander , salt and wasabi . Stir in one can of beans , bring to a boil , then reduce heat , cover and simmer . In a large skillet over medium heat , heat remaining oil . Cook Anaheim , serrano and habanero peppers in oil until just tender , 5 to 10 minutes . Stir into the pot and simmer 2 hours . Stir in remaining 2 cans of beans and cook 45 minutes more . 
1/4 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 1 tablespoon honey 2 tablespoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar 4 (6 ounce) tuna steaks 1/2 cup sesame seeds wasabi paste 1 tablespoon olive oil  | In a small bowl , stir together the soy sauce , mirin , honey and sesame oil . Divide into two equal parts . Stir the rice vinegar into one part and set aside as a dipping sauce . Spread the sesame seeds out on a plate . Coat the tuna steaks with the remaining soy sauce mixture , then press into the sesame seeds to coat . Heat olive oil in a cast iron skillet over high heat until very hot . Place steaks in the pan , and sear for about 30 seconds on each side . Serve with the dipping sauce and wasabi paste . 
2 teaspoons dashi granules 4 cups water 3 tablespoons miso paste 1 (8 ounce) package silken tofu , diced 2 green onions , sliced diagonally into 1/2 inch pieces  | In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat , combine dashi granules and water ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium , and whisk in the miso paste . Stir in tofu . Separate the layers of the green onions , and add them to the soup . Simmer gently for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . 
1/2 cup minced onion 1/2 cup peanut oil 1/3 cup rice wine vinegar 2 tablespoons water 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons minced celery 2 tablespoons ketchup 4 teaspoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons white sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper  | In a blender , combine the minced onion , peanut oil , rice vinegar , water , ginger , celery , ketchup , soy sauce , sugar , lemon juice , garlic , salt and pepper . Blend on high speed for about 30 seconds or until all of the ingredients are well-pureed . 
2 large cucumbers , peeled 1/3 cup rice vinegar 4 teaspoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root  | Cut cucumbers in half lengthwise and scoop out any large seeds . Slice crosswise into very thin slices . In a small bowl combine vinegar , sugar , salt and ginger . Mix well . Place cucumbers inside of the bowl , stir so that cucumbers are coated with the mixture . Refrigerate the bowl of cucumbers for at least 1 hour before serving . 
1 pound medium shrimp , peeled (tails left on) and deveined 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon paprika 2 eggs , beaten 1 cup panko crumbs 1 quart vegetable oil for frying  | Place the shrimp in a bowl and season with salt , pepper and garlic powder . In a small bowl , stir together the flour and paprika . Place eggs and panko crumbs into separate bowls . Heat the oil in a deep-fryer or deep skillet to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Dip each shrimp into the flour mixture , then into the egg , and finally into the panko crumbs to coat . Fry a few at a time until golden brown . This should take no longer than 5 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels before serving . 
2/3 cup mirin (Japanese sweet rice wine) 1 cup soy sauce 4 1/2 teaspoons rice vinegar 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1/3 cup white sugar 7 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 1 dash red pepper flakes black pepper to taste  | Bring mirin to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer for 10 minutes . Pour in soy sauce , rice vinegar , sesame oil , and sugar . Season with garlic , ginger , pepper flakes , and black pepper ; simmer an additional 5 minutes . Store in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator . 
15 ounces dried soba noodles 1 1/2 teaspoons dark sesame oil 1/3 cup rice vinegar 1/3 cup soy sauce juice from one lime zest of one lime 2 tablespoons brown sugar 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons red pepper flakes , or to taste (optional) 1 cup finely grated carrot 1/4 cup coarsely chopped salted peanuts 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | In a large pot , cook soba noodles according to package directions . Drain , rinse noodles with cold water , and set aside . Pour into a large bowl the sesame oil , rice vinegar , soy sauce , and lime juice . Mix in lime zest , brown sugar , garlic , and red pepper flakes ; stir until sugar dissolves . Toss in carrots , peanuts , and cilantro . Cut noodles into 3-inch lengths . Stir into dressing mixture . Cover , and refrigerate at least 1 hour . Toss salad again before serving . If dry , splash with soy sauce and vinegar . Serve cold . 
8 ounces fresh green beans , trimmed 2 tablespoons low sodium soy sauce 1/2 tablespoon miso paste 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon sesame seeds , toasted  | Place the green beans into a steamer insert and set in a pot over one inch of water . Bring to a boil , cover and steam for 5 minutes . Remove from the heat and transfer beans to a serving bowl . Meanwhile , in a small bowl , stir together the soy sauce , miso paste , red pepper flakes , garlic and ginger . Pour over the green beans and toss to coat . Sprinkle sesame seeds on top . 
2 1/4 cups Japanese sushi-style rice 1 (4 inch) piece konbu dried kelp (optional) 3 cups water 1/4 cup rice vinegar 1/4 cup white sugar 1 1/4 teaspoons salt  | Place rice into a large , deep bowl . Fill with cold water and rub rice together with hands until the water turns milky white . Pour off the cloudy water , being careful not to pour out the rice . Repeat 3 or 4 times until you can see the rice through 3-inches of water . Drain the rice in a fine strainer , then place into a saucepan along with konbu and water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Stir together rice vinegar , sugar , and salt until dissolved in a small bowl , set aside . Cover , and bring rice to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to low , and simmer for 15 minutes . Remove from heat and allow to stand for 5 minutes . Scrape rice into a bowl ; remove and discard the konbu . Stir in vinegar mixture until well incorporated and no lumps of rice remain . Allow to cool at room temperature . For a shinier appearance , use an electric fan to cool the rice rapidly . 
2 pounds boneless beef sirloin or beef top round steaks (3/4" thick) 3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 (10.5 ounce) can Campbell's® Condensed Beef Broth 1/2 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 cups sliced shiitake mushrooms 1 head Chinese cabbage (bok choy) , thinly sliced 2 medium red peppers , cut into 2"-long strips 3 stalks celery , sliced 2 medium green onions , cut into 2" pieces Hot cooked regular long-grain white rice  | Slice beef into very thin strips . Mix cornstarch , broth , soy and sugar until smooth . Set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in saucepot or wok over high heat . Add beef in 2 batches and stir-fry until browned . Set beef aside . Add 1 tablespoon oil . Add the mushrooms , cabbage , peppers , celery and green onions in 2 batches and stir-fry over medium heat until tender-crisp . Set vegetables aside . Stir cornstarch mixture and add . Cook until mixture boils and thickens , stirring constantly . Return beef and vegetables to saucepot and heat through . Serve over rice . 
2/3 cup uncooked short-grain white rice 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 3 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 4 sheets nori seaweed sheets 1/2 cucumber , peeled , cut into small strips 2 tablespoons pickled ginger 1 avocado 1/2 pound imitation crabmeat , flaked  | In a medium saucepan , bring 1 1/3 cups water to a boil . Add rice , and stir . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes . In a small bowl , mix the rice vinegar , sugar ,and salt . Blend the mixture into the rice . Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . On a medium baking sheet , heat nori in the preheated oven 1 to 2 minutes , until warm . Center one sheet nori on a bamboo sushi mat . Wet your hands . Using your hands , spread a thin layer of rice on the sheet of nori , and press into a thin layer . Arrange 1/4 of the cucumber , ginger , avocado , and imitation crabmeat in a line down the center of the rice . Lift the end of the mat , and gently roll it over the ingredients , pressing gently . Roll it forward to make a complete roll . Repeat with remaining ingredients . Cut each roll into 4 to 6 slices using a wet , sharp knife . 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 cups chopped cabbage 1/4 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , chopped 1/4 cup chopped carrot 1/2 pound ground pork 1 egg 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (10 ounce) package wonton wrappers 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons rice vinegar  | Heat sesame oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Mix in cabbage , onion , garlic and carrot . Cook and stir until cabbage is limp . Mix in ground pork and egg . Cook until pork is evenly brown and egg is no longer runny . Preheat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Place approximately 1 tablespoon of the cabbage and pork mixture in the center of each wrapper . Fold wrappers in half over filling , and seal edges with moistened fingers . In the preheated vegetable oil , cook gyoza approximately 1 minute per side , until lightly browned . Place water into skillet and reduce heat . Cover and allow gyoza to steam until the water is gone . In a small bowl , mix soy sauce and rice vinegar . Use the mixture as a dipping sauce for the finished wrappers . 
1 pound ground pork sausage 5 eggs , beaten 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 head cabbage , cored and shredded 3 carrots , chopped 6 cups cooked white rice , cold 1/4 cup soy sauce , or to taste 1 (14.5 ounce) can bean sprouts , drained 1 (6 ounce) package frozen green peas , thawed ground black pepper to taste 3 green onions , chopped  | In a skillet over medium-high heat , cook the sausage until evenly browned . Drain , and remove sausage from the pan . In the same pan , using the remaining coating of grease from the sausage , scramble the eggs , stirring frequently until cooked through . Set aside . Heat the oil in a very large skillet or electric skillet over medium-high heat . Stir fry the cabbage and carrots just until the cabbage has wilted . Add the cold rice , and fry , stirring so that there are no clumps . Mix in the sausage and pour in some soy sauce . Stir in bean sprouts , peas , and eggs , mixing well so there are no big chunks of egg . Season with pepper , and stir in green onions just before removing from the heat . Adjust soy sauce to taste , and serve . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup cake flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons powdered green tea 1 1/4 cups white sugar 1 cup vegetable oil 3 eggs 1 cup plain yogurt 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 1/4 cups confectioners' sugar 2 teaspoons powdered green tea 2 tablespoons butter , softened 1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 1/2 teaspoons milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour 2 - 9 inch round pans . Sift together the all-purpose flour , cake flour , baking soda , salt , and green tea powder ; set aside . In a large bowl , beat together sugar , oil , and eggs until smooth . Stir in 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla . Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the yogurt , mixing just until incorporated . Pour batter into prepared pans . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 to 40 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean . Cool on wire rack for 30 minutes before turning out of the pans . To make Green Tea Frosting : Sift together confectioners' sugar and green tea powder . In a medium bowl , combine tea mixture with butter , cream cheese , vanilla and milk . Beat with an electric mixer until smooth . To assemble the cakes : when the cakes are completely cooled , put one layer on a flat serving plate . Spread a thin layer of frosting over it . Place the other layer of cake on top , and spread frosting to cover the top and sides of cake . Dust with green tea powder if desired . Serve cold or at room temperature . 
1 cup olive oil 1/4 cup soy sauce 1 lemon , juiced 3 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon prepared Dijon-style mustard 2 teaspoons honey ground black pepper to taste  | In a small bowl , whisk together the soy sauce , lemon juice , garlic , ginger , mustard , honey and pepper . Once these are thoroughly combined , add the oil in a steady stream , whisking constantly . When all of the oil is incorporated into the dressing , pour into a glass jar and chill until serving . 
3 shallots , minced 2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 1 lemon , juiced 1/2 cup dry white wine 1/2 cup heavy cream 1/2 cup unsalted butter , chilled and cut into small cubes 3 tablespoons soy sauce 4 shiso leaves coarse kosher salt ground white pepper 2 tablespoons canola oil 6 (6 ounce) mahi mahi fillets 4 tablespoons sesame seeds 4 tablespoons black sesame seeds  | In a sauce pan over medium heat , combine shallots , ginger , lemon juice , and white wine . Cook until liquid is reduced to approximately 2 tablespoons . Stir in heavy cream , and bring to light boil . Reduce cream by half ; do not burn . Stir in soy sauce , then transfer to blender . Blend on low while slowly adding butter , a few cubes at a time , until all of the butter is emulsified . Roughly chop or tear shiso , add to sauce , and blend for about 10 more seconds . Season to taste with kosher salt and pepper . Keep sauce warm . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Heat oil in a large saute pan over high heat . Season both sides of the fillets with kosher salt and white pepper . Mix together white and black sesame seeds , and place in a plate or flat dish . Press the TOP side only of each fillet into the mixture , and press seeds into fish so it sticks . Make sure that the crusted sides are evenly crusted with the seeds . When oil is smoking , add fish , sesame seed side down to pan , and be careful of oil splatters . Pan sear fish for about 30 to 45 seconds per side . Place pan into oven , or transfer fish to baking sheet , and cook in oven for about 5 to 6 minutes . Serve sesame crust side up with ginger butter sauce . 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon milk 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic salt to taste 1/2 teaspoon pepper 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 8 thin cut boneless pork chops 1 1/2 cups panko crumbs  | In a medium bowl , mix together the eggs , milk , garlic , salt and pepper . Heat oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Place the panko crumbs in a shallow bowl . Rinse pork chops with water , then dip in the egg mixture . Coat with panko crumbs , dip in the egg mixture again , then coat with another layer of panko crumbs . Lay coated chops on a plate until the rest are finished . If you have time , let them set for about 10 minutes , and the coating will set very well . If you wish to freeze the chops , now is the time . When the oil is very hot , place pork chops into the pan , and fry for about 5 minutes on each side , until golden brown . 
1 cup mayonnaise 3 tablespoons white sugar 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 2 tablespoons melted butter 3/4 teaspoon paprika 3/8 teaspoon garlic powder  | In a small bowl , combine mayonnaise , white sugar , rice vinegar , melted butter , paprika and garlic powder . Mix well , cover and refrigerate . 
1 cup uncooked short-grain white rice 2 cups water 1 cup chicken stock 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1/2 onion , thinly sliced 1/2 cup shiitake mushrooms , thinly sliced 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half - cut into strips 4 green onions , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 eggs , beaten 6 snow peas , thinly sliced  | Bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan ; reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Bring the chicken stock to a boil in a small saucepan . Stir in the soy sauce and brown sugar until the sugar has dissolved . Reduce heat to low ; keep warm . Heat several tablespoons of the chicken sauce in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir the onion and shiitake mushrooms in the sauce until the onion has softened , about 3 minutes . Add the chicken , green onions , and a few more tablespoons of the sauce ; continue cooking until the chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes more . Spread the chicken mixture evenly over the skillet ; pour the beaten egg overtop . Reduce heat to medium-low and sprinkle with the snow peas . Cook and stir until the egg has firmed and is no longer runny , about 3 minutes . Divide the rice between two bowls and spoon the egg mixture evenly overtop . Pour additional chicken sauce over the rice to serve . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3/4 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into strips 1/2 onion , thinly sliced 1 cup chicken broth 6 dried shiitake mushrooms , soaked until soft , then sliced into strips 1 carrot , julienned 2 tablespoons white sugar 4 tablespoons soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped green onions 5 eggs , beaten  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Saute chicken strips and onion until the chicken is cooked through , about 5 to 7 minutes . Drain off as much liquid as possible . Stir in the chicken broth , and simmer for 2 minutes . Add the mushrooms and carrot , and let simmer for a few minutes before stirring in the sugar , soy sauce and salt . Simmer for 3 more minutes . Sprinkle in half of the green onions , stirring gently . Pour beaten eggs over the chicken mixture , and simmer until the eggs are cooked through , about 10 minutes . Serve over Japanese sticky rice . 
1/2 stalk celery , chopped 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 carrot , chopped 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon minced fresh garlic 2 tablespoons chicken stock 3 teaspoons beef bouillon granules 1 cup chopped fresh shiitake mushrooms 2 quarts water 1 cup baby portobello mushrooms , sliced 1 tablespoon minced fresh chives  | In a large saucepan or stockpot , combine the celery , onion , carrot , ginger , garlic , and a few of the mushrooms . Add chicken stock , beef bouillon , and water . Place the pot over high heat , and bring to a rolling boil . When the mixture reaches boiling , cover , reduce heat to medium , and cook for 45 minutes . Place all of the remaining mushrooms into a separate pot . When the boiling mixture is done , place a strainer over the pot with the mushrooms in it . Strain the cooked soup into the pot with the mushrooms . Discard strained materials . Serve the broth with mushrooms in small porcelain bowls , and sprinkle fresh chives over the top . Use Asian soup spoons for an elegant effect . 
1 teaspoon tomato paste 1 tablespoon melted butter 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon paprika 1 1/4 cups mayonnaise 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1/4 cup water  | Whisk tomato paste , melted butter , garlic powder , paprika , mayonnaise , sugar , cayenne pepper , and water together until smooth . Cover and refrigerate overnight . 
Sauce 1/2 cup Worcestershire sauce 1/4 cup ketchup 2 tablespoons soy sauce pepper to taste Chicken 2 cups vegetable oil , for deep-fat frying 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 cup panko bread crumbs salt and pepper to taste 1 egg , beaten 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/4 inch thickness 1 green onion , thinly sliced  | For the sauce , stir together the Worcestershire sauce , ketchup , and soy sauce , and a pinch of pepper to taste . Set aside . Heat oil in deep-fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place flour and panko bread crumbs onto separate plates and season with salt and pepper . Place the beaten egg in a medium bowl . Dip flattened chicken pieces first into flour , then egg , and lastly bread crumbs . Fry breaded chicken breasts in preheated oil until golden brown and no longer pink in center , about 8 minutes . Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate to absorb excess oil . Slice chicken into thin strips and top with a drizzle of sauce and a sprinkling of sliced green onions . Serve remaining sauce on the side for dipping . 
2 cups Japanese sushi rice 6 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 6 sheets nori (dry seaweed) 1 avocado - peeled , pitted and sliced 1 cucumber , peeled and sliced 8 ounces smoked salmon , cut into long strips 2 tablespoons wasabi paste  | Soak rice for 4 hours . Drain rice and cook in a rice cooker with 2 cups of water . Rice must be slightly dry as vinegar will be added later . Immediately after rice is cooked , mix in 6 tablespoons rice vinegar to the hot rice . Spread rice on a plate until completely cool . Place 1 sheet of seaweed on bamboo mat , press a thin layer of cool rice on the seaweed . Leave at least 1/2 inch top and bottom edge of the seaweed uncovered . This is for easier sealing later . Dot some wasabi on the rice . Arrange cucumber , avocado and smoked salmon to the rice . Position them about 1 inch away from the bottom edge of the seaweed . Slightly wet the top edge of the seaweed . Roll from bottom to the top edge with the help of the bamboo mat tightly . Cut roll into 8 equal pieces and serve . Repeat for other rolls . 
2 tablespoons canola oil 1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons Asian-style chile paste 1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon canola oil 1/2 medium head cabbage , thinly sliced 1 onion , sliced 2 carrots , cut into matchsticks 1 tablespoon salt 2 pounds cooked yakisoba noodles 2 tablespoons pickled ginger , or to taste (optional)  | Heat 2 tablespoons canola oil and sesame oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir chicken and garlic in hot oil until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir chile paste into chicken mixture ; cook and stir until chicken is completely browned , 3 to 4 minutes . Add soy sauce and simmer for 2 minutes . Pour chicken and sauce into a bowl . Heat 1 tablespoon canola oil in the skillet over medium-high heat ; cook and stir cabbage , onion , carrots , and salt in hot oil until cabbage is wilted , 3 to 4 minutes . Stir the chicken mixture into the cabbage mixture . Add noodles ; cook and stir until noodles are hot and chicken is no longer pink inside , 3 to 4 minutes . Garnish with pickled ginger . 
2 cups uncooked jasmine rice 4 cups water 4 skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into small pieces 1 onion , cut in half and sliced 2 cups dashi stock , made with dashi powder 1/4 cup soy sauce 3 tablespoons mirin (Japanese rice wine) 3 tablespoons brown sugar 4 eggs  | Rinse the rice in 3 to 4 changes of water until the rinse water is almost clear , and drain off the rinse water . Bring the rice and 4 cups of water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Place the chicken in a nonstick skillet with a lid , and cook and stir over medium heat until the chicken is no longer pink inside and beginning to brown , about 5 minutes . Stir in the onion , and cook and stir until the onion is soft , about 5 more minutes . Pour in the stock , and whisk in soy sauce , mirin , and brown sugar , stirring to dissolve the sugar . Bring the mixture to a boil , and let simmer until slightly reduced , about 10 minutes . Whisk the eggs in a bowl until well-beaten , and pour over the chicken and stock . Cover the skillet , reduce heat , and allow to steam for about 5 minutes , until the egg is cooked . Remove from heat . To serve , place 1 cup of cooked rice per bowl into 4 deep soup bowls , top each bowl with 1/4 of the chicken and egg mixture , and spoon about 1/2 cup of soup into each bowl . 
1/2 cup rice vinegar 1/2 cup low-sodium soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1 garlic clove , minced 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/3 cup thinly sliced green onions 1 teaspoon sesame oil  | Whisk together the rice vinegar , soy sauce , red pepper flakes , garlic , ginger , green onions , and sesame oil in a bowl ; allow to sit 15 minutes before serving . Store in refrigerator up to 1 week . 
1 (3 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 1 clove garlic , crushed 3 tablespoons white sugar 2/3 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon sake 1/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 tablespoons cooking oil  | Rinse chicken , and pat dry . In a glass baking dish or bowl , stir together the ginger , garlic , sugar , soy sauce , sake and mirin . Place the chicken into the mixture to marinate . Refrigerate , covered for several hours , or overnight . Heat oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Place chicken pieces into the pan skin-side down , reserving marinade . Cook until light brown , then flip and brown the other side . Drain off grease , and pour the marinade into the pan . Cover , and reduce heat to low , and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes . Remove the lid and continue cooking , shaking the skillet occasionally , until marinade is reduced to a nice thick sauce and chicken pieces are fully cooked . 
1 (12 ounce) package extra firm tofu 3 tablespoons cornstarch oil for frying 2 green onions , chopped 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce  | Cut tofu into 12 cubes . Place cornstarch on a plate or in a shallow bowl and dredge tofu in it , coating thoroughly . Heat enough oil so that tofu will be half-way submerged . Fry tofu in hot oil for 3 to 5 minutes on each side , or until crispy . Drain on paper towels . Sprinkle green onions over tofu and drizzle with hoisin sauce . Serve immediately . 
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 1 tablespoon canola oil 2 tablespoons chile paste 2 cloves garlic , chopped 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 1/2 cup soy sauce 1 onion , sliced lengthwise into eighths 1/2 medium head cabbage , coarsely chopped 2 carrots , coarsely chopped 8 ounces soba noodles , cooked and drained  | In a large skillet combine sesame oil , canola oil and chili paste ; stir-fry 30 seconds . Add garlic and stir fry an additional 30 seconds . Add chicken and 1/4 cup of the soy sauce and stir fry until chicken is no longer pink , about 5 minutes . Remove mixture from pan , set aside , and keep warm . In the emptied pan combine the onion , cabbage , and carrots . Stir-fry until cabbage begins to wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in the remaining soy sauce , cooked noodles , and the chicken mixture to pan and mix to blend . Serve and enjoy ! 
1 pound mochiko (glutinous rice flour) 2 1/2 cups white sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 2 cups water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1/4 teaspoon red food color 1 1/2 cups potato starch  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13 inch pan . Whisk together the rice flour , sugar and baking powder ; set aside . In a medium bowl , mix together the water , vanilla , coconut milk and red food coloring . Blend in the rice flour mixture . Pour into the prepared pan . Cover the pan with foil and bake for 1 hour . Allow to cool completely . Turn the pan of mochi out onto a clean surface that has been dusted with potato starch . Cut into bite size pieces using a plastic knife . The mochi does not stick as much to plastic knives . 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons water 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons honey 1 1/2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 1 1/4 teaspoons distilled white vinegar 1 teaspoon olive oil 1/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/8 teaspoon ground ginger 2 (6 ounce) lean beef rib eye steaks  | Whisk together the soy sauce , water , sugar , honey , Worcestershire sauce , vinegar , olive oil , onion powder , garlic powder , and ground ginger in a large bowl . Pierce steaks several times with a fork . Marinate steaks in soy sauce mixture for at least 2 hours . Cook the steaks in a hot skillet , wok , or hibachi over medium heat ; 7 minutes per side for medium . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) . 
1/3 cup sake 1/3 cup mirin (Japanese sweet rice wine) 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 cup packed brown sugar 1/3 cup miso paste 4 (4 ounce) fillets fresh sea bass , about 1 inch thick 2 tablespoons chopped green onion  | Whisk together the sake , mirin , soy sauce , brown sugar , and miso paste in a bowl to make the marinade . Place the sea bass in a large sealable plastic bag and pour the marinade over the sea bass . Chill in refrigerator 3 to 6 hours . Arrange the fillets on a baking sheet . Discard the marinade . Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source . Prop the oven door to remain slightly ajar . Bake the sea bass under the broiler until the fish flakes easily with a fork , 7 to 9 minutes . Sprinkle with chopped green onions to serve . 
2 eggs , lightly beaten 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/8 teaspoon chicken bouillon granules 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 3 tablespoons potato starch 1 tablespoon rice flour oil for frying  | In a large bowl , mix together eggs , salt , pepper , sugar , garlic , ginger , sesame oil , soy sauce , and bouillon . Add chicken pieces , and stir to coat . Cover , and refrigerate for 30 minutes . Remove bowl from refrigerator , add potato starch and rice flour to meat , and mix well . In a large skillet or deep fryer , heat oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) . Place chicken in hot oil , and fry until golden brown . Cook meat in batches to maintain oil temperature . Drain briefly on paper towels . Serve hot . 
2 1/2 cups mochiko (glutinous rice flour) 2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups white sugar 4 eggs 1 (29 ounce) can pumpkin puree 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 cup butter , melted 2 teaspoons vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . Sift together the mochiko , baking powder , and sugar in a large bowl . Mix together the eggs , pumpkin puree , condensed milk , butter , and vanilla extract in a separate bowl . Stir the egg mixture into the mochiko mixture . Pour into the prepared dish . Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour . Allow to cool before serving . 
12 ounces sliced bacon 1 1/3 cups water 4 eggs 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 medium head cabbage , cored and sliced 2 tablespoons minced pickled ginger 1/4 cup tonkatsu sauce or barbeque sauce  | Fry the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until slightly crispy . Remove to paper towels to drain and set aside . In a large bowl , stir together the water and eggs . Gradually stir in the flour and salt until smooth . Add the cabbage and ginger ; stir until evenly distributed . Heat a skillet over medium heat and coat with cooking spray . Pour about 1/4 of the batter into the center of the skillet . Place 4 slices of cooked bacon in the center . Use a spatula to shape the pancake into a circle . Fry for about 5 minutes or until the edges are dry . Flip and cook on the other side until the center is stable and it is browned on both sides . Remove from the pan and drizzle with tonkatsu sauce to serve . Continue with remaining batter and bacon . 
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese 1/4 cup milk 2 egg yolks 1/4 cup white sugar , divided 2 egg whites 1/3 teaspoon cream of tartar 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line the bottom of a 9 inch round cake pan cake pan with parchment paper . Warm the cream cheese and milk in a small saucepan over medium-low heat . Cook , stirring occasionally , until cream cheese is melted . Remove from the heat and set aside . In a medium bowl , beat egg yolks and half of the sugar until light and fluffy using an electric mixer . Fold the cream cheese mixture into the yolks . Sift in the flour and cornstarch , and stir until blended . In a separate bowl , using clean beaters , whip egg whites with cream of tartar until they can hold a soft peak . Gradually sprinkle in the remaining sugar and continue whipping to stiff peaks . Fold egg whites into the cream cheese mixture . Pour into the prepared cake pan . Place the pan on a baking sheet with sides . Place the baking sheet with the cheesecake into the oven , and pour water into the baking sheet until it is half way full . Bake for 20 minutes in the preheated oven , then reduce the heat to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Continue to bake for 15 more minutes . Let the cake cool before removing from the pan . Run a knife around the outer edge of the cake pan , and invert onto a plate to remove the cake . Peel off the parchment paper and invert onto a serving plate so the top of the cake is on top again . 
1 1/2 cups mochiko (glutinous rice flour) 1 cup white sugar 1 1/2 cups water 2 drops distilled white vinegar 1/2 cup potato starch 1/4 cup white sugar 1/4 teaspoon salt  | In a medium bowl , mix together the mochiko , 1 cup of sugar , and water until well blended . Mix in the 2 drops of vinegar to soften . Pour into a microwave-safe dish , and loosely cover with plastic . Microwave for 8 to 10 minutes on HIGH . Remove , and let cool until cool enough to handle . In a small bowl , combine the potato starch , 1/4 cup sugar , and salt . Turn the mochi out onto the plastic , and cut into pieces using a plastic or wooden knife . Metal knives tend to stick too much . Roll the pieces in the potato starch mixture . 
1 1/4 cups water 1 cup uncooked glutinous white rice (sushi rice) 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 pinch salt 4 sheets nori (dry seaweed) 1/2 cucumber , sliced into thin strips 1 avocado - peeled , pitted and sliced  | Combine the water and rice in a saucepan and bring to a boil . Cover , reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes , or until rice is tender and water has been absorbed . Remove from the heat and stir in the vinegar and a pinch of salt . Set aside to cool . Cover a bamboo sushi mat with plastic wrap to keep the rice from sticking . Place a sheet of seaweed over the plastic . Use your hands to spread the rice evenly onto the sheet , leaving about 1/2 inch of seaweed empty at the bottom . Arrange strips of cucumber and avocado across the center of the rice . Lift the mat and roll over the vegetables once and press down . Unroll , then roll again towards the exposed end of the seaweed sheet to make a long roll . You may moisten with a little water to help seal . Set aside and continue with remaining nori sheets , rice and fillings . Use a sharp wet knife to slice the rolls into 5 or 6 slices . Serve cut side up with your favorite sushi condiments . 
1 cup uncooked short-grain white rice 1 cup water 1/4 cup rice vinegar 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 cup imitation crabmeat , finely chopped 1/4 cup mayonnaise 8 sheets nori (dry seaweed) 2 1/2 tablespoons sesame seeds 1 cucumber , cut into thin spears 2 avocados - pitted , peeled , and sliced the long way  | Wash the rice in several changes of water until the rinse water is no longer cloudy , drain well , and place in a covered pan or rice cooker with 1 cup water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to a simmer , and cover the pan . Allow the rice to simmer until the top looks dry , about 15 minutes . Turn off the heat , and let stand for 10 minutes to absorb the rest of the water . Mix the rice vinegar and sugar in a small bowl until the sugar has dissolved , and stir the mixture into the cooked rice until well combined . Allow the rice to cool , and set aside . Mix the imitation crabmeat with mayonnaise in a bowl , and set aside . To roll the sushi , cover a bamboo rolling mat with plastic wrap . Lay a sheet of nori , shiny side down , on the plastic wrap . With wet fingers , firmly pat a thin , even layer of prepared rice over the nori , leaving 1/4 inch uncovered at the bottom edge of the sheet . Sprinkle the rice with about 1/2 teaspoon of sesame seeds , and gently press them into the rice . Carefully flip the nori sheet over so the seaweed side is up . Place 2 or 3 long cucumber spears , 2 or 3 slices of avocado , and about 1 tablespoon of imitation crab mixture in a line across the nori sheet , about 1/4 from the uncovered edge . Pick up the edge of the bamboo rolling sheet , fold the bottom edge of the sheet up , enclosing the filling , and tightly roll the sushi into a cylinder about 1 1/2 inch in diameter . Once the sushi is rolled , wrap it in the mat and gently squeeze to compact it tightly . Cut each roll into 1 inch pieces with a very sharp knife dipped in water . 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon dashi granules 1/2 teaspoon water 1/4 (12 ounce) package silken tofu 1 1/2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon thinly sliced green onion 1 pinch bonito shavings (dry fish flakes) 1 pinch toasted sesame seeds  | Mix the soy sauce , sugar , dashi granules , and water together in small bowl until sugar dissolves . Place the tofu on a small plate and top with ginger , green onion , and bonito shavings . Drizzle the soy mixture on top , and sprinkle with sesame seeds . 
2 (1 1/2-pound) salmon fillets , skin removed 1 cup miso paste 1/4 cup sake 1/2 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup prepared soy-ginger salad dressing 3 tablespoons seasoned rice vinegar  | Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Fill a large skillet with about 1 inch of water and bring to a boil . Poach fish just until cooked on the outside , about 2 minutes per side . Transfer fillets to a broiler pan . In a small bowl , stir together the miso paste , sake , brown sugar , sesame seeds , sesame oil , water , salad dressing and rice vinegar . Spread this over the tops of the salmon fillets . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until almost cooked through . Switch the oven to broil , and broil until the top is browned and bubbly , about 5 more minutes . Cut fillets into portions to serve . 
2 cups mayonnaise 6 1/2 fluid ounces water 1 1/2 tablespoons ketchup 2 tablespoons sugar 1 dash hot pepper sauce 2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon paprika 1/4 teaspoon white pepper 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 1 pinch salt  | In a blender or food processor , combine mayonnaise , water , ketchup , sugar , and hot pepper sauce . Season with garlic powder , paprika , white pepper , and black pepper , and salt . Blend until smooth . 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1/4 teaspoon chili oil , or to taste  | In a small bowl or ramekin , stir together the soy sauce and rice vinegar . Drip in the chili oil to taste . Stir with chopsticks , and dip away ! 
1/4 cup dark soy sauce 1/4 cup sake 2 tablespoons mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 1 tablespoon white sugar  | Combine soy sauce , sake , mirin and sugar in a small saucepan over medium heat and stir until sugar is dissolved . Can be used immediately or cooled and refrigerated . 
1 cup chopped cooked chicken 1 1/2 cups thinly sliced napa cabbage 1/4 cup shredded carrots 3 green onions , chopped 12 fresh green beans , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 small green bell pepper , cut into thin strips 1 small zucchini , cut into thin strips 3 eggs , lightly beaten 3/4 cup all-purpose flour 3/4 cup chicken stock 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon vegetable oil 1/4 teaspoon toasted sesame oil  | In a large bowl , mix chicken , cabbage , carrots , green onions , green beans , green bell pepper and zucchini . In a separate bowl , beat together eggs , flour , chicken stock and soy sauce . Pour batter over chicken mixture and toss to thoroughly coat . Mix vegetable oil and sesame oil in a skillet over medium heat . Scoop about 1/4 cup batter into skillet , enough to make a 2 1/2 inch circle . Cover and cook 4 minutes , or until bottom is golden brown . Flip and continue cooking 4 minutes , or until cooked through . Drain on paper towels . 
3 tablespoons sesame oil 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 clove garlic , minced (optional) 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root (optional) 1 tablespoon white sugar (optional) 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 large head cabbage , cored and shredded 1 bunch green onions , thinly sliced 1 cup almond slivers 1/4 cup toasted sesame seeds  | Whisk together sesame oil , vinegar , garlic , ginger , sugar , salt , and pepper in a small bowl until the sugar has dissolved . Toss the cabbage , green onions , almonds , and sesame seeds in a large bowl with the dressing until well coated . 
3 cucumbers 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 teaspoons white sugar 3 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 3 tablespoons soy sauce  | Cut cucumbers lengthwise , scoop out seeds with a spoon , and slice cucumbers into bite-sized pieces . Transfer to a salad bowl . In a small bowl , mix together salt , oil , sugar , rice wine vinegar , and soy sauce . Pour over cucumbers , and gently toss . Refrigerate several hours before serving , tossing every now and then . 
1 cup uncooked white rice 2 cups water 1/2 cup diced carrots 1/2 cup diced onion 4 tablespoons butter or margarine , divided 4 eggs 2 tablespoons milk 1 cup ketchup salt and pepper to taste  | Combine the rice and water in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil , then cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , until tender . Melt one tablespoon of butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add carrots and onion . Cook , stirring frequently until onions are tender and lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Add the cooked rice , and stir to blend well . Mix in the remaining butter . Reduce heat to medium-low , and stir in ketchup . Simmer for about 5 minutes to blend flavors , then remove from heat . In a small bowl , whisk together the eggs and milk . Heat a nonstick skillet over medium heat . Pour half of the egg mixture into the skillet . Cook until firm , turning over once halfway through . Remove from the skillet and cut in half . Repeat with the remaining eggs . For each serving , place a scoop of rice onto a plate , and form into a flattened log shape . Top with one of the egg halves . Ketchup , salt and pepper may be added on top of the eggs at the table . 
4 cups uncooked short-grain white rice 4 1/2 cups water 1 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup bonito shavings (dry fish flakes) 2 sheets nori (dry seaweed) , cut into 1/2-inch strips 2 tablespoons sesame seeds  | Wash the rice in a mesh strainer until the water runs clear . Combine washed rice and 4 1/2 cups water in a saucepan . Bring to a boil over high heat , stirring occasionally . Reduce heat to low ; cover . Simmer rice until the water is absorbed , 15 to 20 minutes . Let rice rest , for 15 minutes to allow the rice to continue to steam and become tender . Allow cooked rice to cool . Combine 1 cup water with the salt in a small bowl . Use this water to dampen hands before handling the rice . Divide the cooked rice into 8 equal portions . Use one portion of rice for each onigiri . Divide one portion of rice in two . Create a dimple in the rice and fill with a heaping teaspoon of bonito flakes . Cover with the remaining portion of rice and press lightly to enclose filling inside rice ball . Gently press the rice to shape into a triangle . Wrap shaped onigiri with a strip of nori . Sprinkle with sesame seeds . Repeat to make a total of 8 onigiri . 
1/2 cup sake 1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon sugar 1 clove garlic , crushed 1 (2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , grated 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed 3 leeks , white part only , cut into 1/2 inch pieces  | In a medium dish , mix together the sake , soy sauce , sugar , garlic and ginger . Add chicken , and allow to marinate for 15 minutes . Preheat your oven's broiler . Grease six metal skewers , and thread alternately with 3 pieces of chicken and 2 pieces of leek . Place on a baking sheet or broiling pan , and brush with the marinade . Broil for about 5 minutes , baste again , then broil for another 5 minutes , or until chicken is cooked through . Discard remaining marinade . 
2 cups uncooked glutinous white rice (sushi rice) 3 cups water 1/2 cup rice vinegar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon salt  | Rinse the rice in a strainer or colander until the water runs clear . Combine with water in a medium saucepan . Bring to a boil , then reduce the heat to low , cover and cook for 20 minutes . Rice should be tender and water should be absorbed . Cool until cool enough to handle . In a small saucepan , combine the rice vinegar , oil , sugar and salt . Cook over medium heat until the sugar dissolves . Cool , then stir into the cooked rice . When you pour this in to the rice it will seem very wet . Keep stirring and the rice will dry as it cools . 
1/2 cup ketchup 2 1/2 tablespoons reduced-sodium soy sauce 2 1/2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons dry sherry 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger  | Combine the ketchup , soy sauce , Worcestershire sauce , sherry , sugar , garlic powder , and ginger in a microwave-safe coffee mug or glass measuring cup . Stir well with a fork and microwave on high for 1 minute . Stir again and set aside . Let stand for 1 hour to allow the flavors to incorporate . 
1 tablespoon canola oil 5 pounds pork butt (shoulder roast) cut into 2-inch slices 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 teaspoon minced ginger 2 cups water , more if needed 1/3 cup soy sauce 1/3 cup brown sugar 3/4 cup white (shiro) miso  | Heat canola oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until hot . Sear pork slices until well browned on both sides , then remove . Stir in the garlic and ginger , cook until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add the water , soy sauce , brown sugar , and miso ; bring to a simmer , scraping the bottom of the pan to dissolve the caramelized juices . Place pork into pot , add additional water if needed to cover pork with the sauce . Then , reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer for 3 hours until the pork is tender , and the sauce has thickened . 
1 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon chili garlic sauce  | In a small bowl , stir together the mayonnaise , sugar and chili garilc sauce . Use immediately or refrigerate and use within one week . 
1 cup uncooked white rice 2 cups water 2 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 2 sheets nori seaweed sheets 1/4 cucumber , peeled and sliced lengthwise 2 pieces imitation crab legs 1/2 (3 ounce) package cream cheese , sliced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root  | Bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Stir in rice vinegar and salt . Allow to cool completely . Lay out seaweed sheets . Moisten hands with water , then spread the rice evenly on each sheet , leaving a 1/2 inch gap along one edge , lengthwise . Arrange strips of cucumber , imitation crabmeat , and cream cheese in a straight line along the side opposite of the gap . Roll the sushi from the toppings to the exposed end of the the seaweed sheet . Using a sharp wet knife , slice each roll into 5 or 6 pieces . Serve with minced ginger on the side . 
3 medium russet potatoes , peeled , and chopped 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 onions , chopped 3/4 pound ground beef 4 teaspoons light soy sauce all-purpose flour for coating 2 eggs , beaten panko bread crumbs 1/2 cup oil for frying  | Add potatoes to a large pot of salted water , and bring to a boil ; cook until tender , about 15 minutes . Drain , pour potatoes into a large bowl . Stir in butter , and mash with a fork or potato masher . Set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in onions , and cook until soft . Stir in beef and soy sauce . Cook , stirring continuously , until beef is browned and all the liquid is evaporated . Combine beef and onions with potatoes , and stir well . Heat 1/2 cup oil in a deep skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Shape potato and beef mixture into 10 similar-size balls , and flatten into patties . Dredge patties in flour . Then dip in egg , and coat with panko bread crumbs . Carefully place patties into oil , and fry until golden brown on each side . 
1/2 (10.5 ounce) package marshmallows 1/2 cup milk 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 egg yolk 1/2 lemon , juiced 1 cup heavy cream 1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust  | In a saucepan on low heat , combine marshmallows and milk . Cook until marshmallows are melted , and mixture starts to boil . Remove from heat . In a large bowl , beat cream cheese until smooth . Stir in egg yolk . Fold in 1/3 of the melted marshmallow mixture , then quickly fold in remaining marshmallow until no streaks remain . Stir in lemon juice . In a large bowl , beat cream until soft peaks form . Fold the whipped cream into the cream cheese mixture until no streaks remain . Spread into graham crust . Refrigerate for 3 hours . 
2 tablespoons white sugar 2 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 teaspoon Asian (toasted) sesame oil 1 teaspoon chili paste (sambal oelek) salt to taste 2 large cucumbers - peeled , seeded , and cut into 1/4-inch slices  | Whisk sugar , rice vinegar , sesame oil , chile paste , and salt together in a bowl . Add cucumbers and stir to coat . Allow salad to marinate for 30 minutes before serving at room temperature . 
4 mackerel fillets 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root  | Rinse fillets , and pat dry with paper towels . In a medium bowl , mix together the soy sauce , mirin , sugar and fresh ginger . Place fillets into the marinade , and let stand for at least 20 minutes . Preheat your ovens broiler , or an outdoor grill for high heat . Broil the fillets , basting occasionally , until the fish flakes easily with a fork , about 5 to 8 minutes . Serve with a lemon slice or long white radish slice as a garnish . 
1 1/2 pounds whole pork belly 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup packed brown sugar 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 clove garlic , or to taste  | Place pork belly into a large pot , and cover with water about 1-inch above the pork . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat , and simmer for 2 minutes . Discard water and fill pot with fresh water about 1-inch above the pork . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat , then reduce heat to a simmer . Cook until the pork begins to soften , about 1 hour . Remove the pork from the water , and place on a cutting board . Allow pork to cool for a few minutes , then slice off the thick skin and discard . Cut the remaining pork meat into 1-inch wide slices . Set aside . Combine the soy sauce , brown sugar , 1/2 cup water , mirin , ginger , and garlic in a large saucepan , and bring to a boil over high heat . Add the sliced pork belly , then bring to a boil again . Reduce heat to low , and place a sheet of aluminum foil directly over the meat and sauce . Simmer uncovered until the pork is tender , 30 to 45 minutes , turning the pork several times to cook evenly . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine)  | Heat soy sauce , sugar , and mirin into a small saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir until liquid is reduced to about 3/4 cup . 
1/2 cup sake 1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon sugar 1 clove garlic , crushed 1 (2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , grated 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed 3 leeks , white part only , cut into 1/2 inch pieces  | In a medium dish , mix together the sake , soy sauce , sugar , garlic and ginger . Add chicken , and allow to marinate for 15 minutes . Preheat your oven's broiler . Grease six metal skewers , and thread alternately with 3 pieces of chicken and 2 pieces of leek . Place on a baking sheet or broiling pan , and brush with the marinade . Broil for about 5 minutes , baste again , then broil for another 5 minutes , or until chicken is cooked through . Discard remaining marinade . 
1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons sake 2 tablespoons mirin 1 pound thinly sliced pork loin 3 tablespoons vegetable oil  | In a large bowl , mix together the ginger , soy sauce , sake and mirin . Add the sliced pork , cover , and marinate for about 1 hour . Heat the oil in a skillet or wok over high heat . Add the pork , and fry until brown . The pork should have a dark crispy look to it . Do not cook on low or medium heat , as the juices will not cook fast enough to get a crispy texture . Discard leftover marinade . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup sherry or white cooking wine 1/2 cup chicken broth 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1 pinch garlic powder 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 2 inch pieces  | In a small saucepan , combine the soy sauce , sherry , chicken broth , ginger , garlic powder and green onions . Bring to a boil , and immediately remove from heat . Set aside . Preheat your oven's broiler . Thread chicken pieces onto metal or bamboo skewers . Arrange on a broiler pan that has been coated with cooking spray . Spoon 1 or 2 tablespoons of the sauce over each chicken skewer . Place the pan under the broiler , and broil for about 3 minutes , until browned . Remove from the oven , turn over , and spoon more sauce onto each one . Return to the oven until chicken is cooked through and nicely browned . 
1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 tablespoon matcha green tea powder , or to taste 1/2 cup white sugar 1 egg 1/3 cup melted butter 1 cup milk 1/4 cup chopped walnuts (optional)  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease 12 muffin cups , or line with paper muffin liners . Whisk the flour , salt , baking powder , matcha , and sugar together in a mixing bowl ; set aside . Whisk together the egg , melted butter , and milk in another bowl . Stir the milk mixture into the flour mixture until just moistened . Stir in walnuts . Divide the batter among the prepared muffin cups . Bake in the preheated oven until golden and the tops spring back when lightly pressed , about 25 minutes . Cool in the muffin tin for 5 minutes , then remove to cool on a wire rack . 
8 ounces fresh young ginger root , peeled 1 1/2 teaspoons sea salt 1 cup rice vinegar 1/3 cup white sugar  | Cut the ginger into chunks and place them into a bowl . Sprinkle with sea salt , stir to coat and let stand for about 30 minutes . Transfer the ginger to a clean jar . In a saucepan , stir together the rice vinegar and sugar until sugar has dissolved . Bring to a boil , then pour the boiling liquid over the ginger root pieces in the jar . Allow the mixture to cool , then put the lid on the jar and store in the refrigerator for at least one week . You will see that the liquid will change to slightly pinkish in few minutes . Don't be alarmed because it's the reaction of rice vinegar that causes the change . Only quality rice vinegar can do that ! Some commercial pickled ginger has red coloring added . Cut pieces of ginger into paper thin slices for serving . 
6 cups prepared dashi stock 1/4 pound chicken , cut into chunks 2 carrots , diced 1/3 cup soy sauce 3 tablespoons mirin 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1/3 teaspoon salt 2 (12 ounce) packages firm tofu , cubed 1/3 pound shiitake mushrooms , sliced 5 ribs and leaves of bok choy , chopped 1 (9 ounce) package fresh udon noodles 4 eggs 2 leeks , diced  | Heat dashi stock , chicken , carrots , soy sauce , mirin , sugar , and salt in a pot over medium heat . Simmer until chicken is no longer pink in the center , 5 to 7 minutes . Add tofu , mushrooms , and bok choy , stirring until vegetables are tender , about 5 minutes more . Stir udon noodles into broth and simmer until tender , 3 to 4 minutes . Add leeks and crack eggs into soup ; simmer until eggs are slightly firm , about 5 minutes more . 
4 center cut pork chops , thinly sliced 1/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 1/4 cup rice vinegar 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup mushrooms , sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1 bunch green onions 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon sesame oil  | Slice pork as thinly as possible . Working with partially frozen chops makes this easier . In a medium bowl , mix pork with mirin , rice vinegar , and soy sauce . Cover , and let marinate in refrigerator while you prepare the remaining ingredients . Slice mushrooms , green pepper , green part of green onions , and set aside . Mince white part of green onions , garlic , and ginger . Heat wok or large skillet over medium heat , then coat with sesame oil . Saute minced green onion , garlic , and ginger until fragrant . Increase heat to high . Squeeze marinade off pork , and place pork into wok . Reserve marinade . Cook and stir until pork is no longer pink , about 4 minutes . Stir in mushrooms , green pepper , and sliced green onion . Cook , stirring , until vegetables are tender , about 4 minutes . Stir in reserved marinade , and cook about 2 minutes . 
2 tablespoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon brown sugar 10 cups fresh spinach leaves 4 tablespoons black sesame seeds , toasted  | Heat the sesame oil in a large skillet over medium heat until hot . Add the spinach 3 to 4 cups at a time . Cook and stir to wilt , then add more spinach . Grind the sesame seeds into fine crumbs using a mortar and pestle . When spinach is wilted , move it to the sides of the pan and sprinkle sugar in the center . When the sugar melts , stir in the spinach to coat . Transfer spinach to a serving plate and sprinkle ground sesame seeds on top . 
3/4 cup sesame seeds , divided 1/2 teaspoon seasoning salt 1 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 teaspoon onion powder 1 tablespoon wasabi powder 1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt 1 cup all-purpose flour 2 eggs 3 fluid ounces milk 2 (4 ounce) tuna steaks (about 3/4 inch thick) 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (1.12 ounce) package miso soup mix 1 tablespoon soy sauce  | In a shallow bowl , mix together 1/2 cup of sesame seeds , seasoning salt , white pepper , onion powder , wasabi powder , kosher salt and flour ; set aside . In a separate bowl , mix together the eggs and milk . Dip tuna steaks in the egg mixture , then dredge in the flour mixture until well coated on both sides . Press on as many extra sesame seeds as possible , so it is well coated . Heat the vegetable oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Fry tuna steaks for 2 minutes per side , and immediately remove from heat . The inside of the fish should still be red . To make the soy miso dressing , mix together the miso soup mix and soy sauce . Heat in a small saucepan or microwave , and drizzle over steaks . 
1 cup uncooked short-grain white rice 2 cups water 1 cup chicken stock 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1/2 onion , thinly sliced 1/2 cup shiitake mushrooms , thinly sliced 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half - cut into strips 4 green onions , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 eggs , beaten 6 snow peas , thinly sliced  | Bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan ; reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Bring the chicken stock to a boil in a small saucepan . Stir in the soy sauce and brown sugar until the sugar has dissolved . Reduce heat to low ; keep warm . Heat several tablespoons of the chicken sauce in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir the onion and shiitake mushrooms in the sauce until the onion has softened , about 3 minutes . Add the chicken , green onions , and a few more tablespoons of the sauce ; continue cooking until the chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes more . Spread the chicken mixture evenly over the skillet ; pour the beaten egg overtop . Reduce heat to medium-low and sprinkle with the snow peas . Cook and stir until the egg has firmed and is no longer runny , about 3 minutes . Divide the rice between two bowls and spoon the egg mixture evenly overtop . Pour additional chicken sauce over the rice to serve . 
3 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons white sugar 3 tablespoons white vinegar 5 tablespoons chicken stock 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1/2 teaspoon chili oil (optional) 2 (3 ounce) packages ramen noodles 1 egg , beaten 1/2 cucumber , julienned 1 carrot , grated 1 slice cooked ham , cut into thin strips 1/4 sheet nori , cut into thin slices 1 tablespoon hot Chinese mustard (optional)  | Mix the soy sauce , sugar , vinegar , chicken stock , sesame oil , and chili oil together in a small bowl , and stir until the sugar dissolves . Set aside . Bring a saucepan of water to a boil . Add the ramen noodles and cook for 2 minutes . Drain immediately , and refrigerate noodles until cold . Meanwhile , heat a small nonstick skillet over medium heat . Pour in the beaten egg and tilt the pan to thinly coat the bottom with egg . When firm , fold the egg in half and remove from the pan . Slice into thin strips . To serve , place cold noodles on serving plates . Top with separate piles of egg , cucumber , carrot , and ham . Pour the sauce over the top and sprinkle with crumbled nori . Serve with a touch of hot mustard on the side . 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon milk 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic salt to taste 1/2 teaspoon pepper 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 8 thin cut boneless pork chops 1 1/2 cups panko crumbs  | In a medium bowl , mix together the eggs , milk , garlic , salt and pepper . Heat oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Place the panko crumbs in a shallow bowl . Rinse pork chops with water , then dip in the egg mixture . Coat with panko crumbs , dip in the egg mixture again , then coat with another layer of panko crumbs . Lay coated chops on a plate until the rest are finished . If you have time , let them set for about 10 minutes , and the coating will set very well . If you wish to freeze the chops , now is the time . When the oil is very hot , place pork chops into the pan , and fry for about 5 minutes on each side , until golden brown . 
1/4 cup tahini 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon mayonnaise 1 clove garlic , minced 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 pinch paprika 1/4 cup water , or as needed  | Whisk the tahini , soy sauce , mayonnaise , garlic , ginger , and paprika together in a bowl . Gradually stir the water into the mixture until you reach a desired consistency . Refrigerate until ready to use . 
1 (.25 ounce) package unflavored gelatin 2 tablespoons hot water 3 tablespoons white sugar 2 cups fresh brewed coffee  | Dissolve gelatin in the hot water in a small bowl . Pour gelatin mixture , coffee , and sugar in a saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat . Pour coffee mixture into glasses for individual servings or a large pan for cubing . Chill in the refrigerator until solidified , 6 to 7 hours . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 pinch salt 1 cup water 1 egg yolk 2 egg whites , lightly beaten 1 pound medium shrimp , peeled and deveined , tails left on 2 cups vegetable oil for frying  | Heat oil in a deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Whisk flour , cornstarch , and salt in a large bowl . Make a depression in the center of the flour . Stir in the water and egg yolk . Mix just until moistened ; batter will be lumpy . Stir in egg whites . One at a time , dip shrimp into the batter to coat . Do not batter tails . Carefully place a few shrimp at a time into the hot oil . Fry until golden brown , about 1 1/2 minutes . Drain on paper towels . 
2 1/4 cups water 2 ounces firm tofu , cut into 1/4 inch cubes 1 tablespoon light miso paste 2 teaspoons barley miso paste 1/2 cup fresh spinach , washed and chopped 1 green onion , thinly sliced  | In a medium saucepan , bring the water to a boil . Ladle out about 1/2 cup of the boiling water , and reserve . Add tofu . Reduce the heat to medium , cover , and cook for 1 to 2 minutes . Add spinach or bok choy ; simmer about 1 to 2 minutes , or until the greens are tender . Remove soup from heat . Blend white miso and barley miso into reserved hot water . Stir into soup . Ladle into bowls , and garnish with scallion . Serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 pounds beef sirloin strips 2/3 cup soy sauce 2 teaspoons monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1/3 cup chicken broth 1/3 cup white sugar 3 small onions , sliced 2 cups chopped celery 1 (14 ounce) can bamboo shoots , drained and chopped 4 green onions , sliced 1 (4.5 ounce) can mushrooms , drained 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts , drained 1 teaspoon cornstarch  | Heat oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Brown beef in hot oil , then stir in soy sauce , MSG , broth , and sugar . Mix in onion and celery , and cook until tender . Stir in bamboo shoots , green onions , mushrooms , and water chestnuts . Reduce heat to medium , stir in cornstarch , and simmer until sauce is thickened . 
1 tablespoon peanut oil 1 pound beef round steak , sliced diagonally into 3 inch pieces 1/2 cup beef stock 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon butter 3/4 cup onion , diced 3/4 cup celery , diced 1/4 pound mushrooms , chopped 1/4 pound fresh spinach , rinsed  | Heat oil in a wok or large heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Add beef , and cook until evenly brown . Stir in beef stock , soy sauce and butter . Push meat to the side , and toss in onion , celery and mushrooms . Cook , stirring , for about 4 minutes . Add spinach , and cook for 2 more minutes . 
2 eggs 1 cup cooled chicken or fish stock 1 dash sake 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 1/2 cup chopped cooked chicken breast meat 1 shiitake mushroom , sliced into strips 2 sprigs fresh parsley , for garnish  | In a medium bowl , whisk eggs gently while slowly pouring in the chicken stock , sake , and soy sauce . Divide the mushroom and chicken evenly between two small tea cups . Pour the egg mixture into each cup until filled . Bring about 1 inch of water to a boil in a steamer or saucepan . Reduce heat to a simmer , and place cups into the steamer . Cover , and steam for 12 minutes , or until egg is firm but soft and silky like tofu . Garnish each cup with a sprig of parsley , and serve . 
3 cups prepared dashi stock 1/4 cup sliced shiitake mushrooms 1 tablespoon miso paste 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/8 cup cubed soft tofu 1 green onion , chopped  | In a medium saucepan , bring stock to a boil ; reduce heat to simmer , add mushrooms , and cook for 3 minutes . In a small bowl , mix miso paste and soy sauce together ; stir into stock along with tofu . Simmer 5 minutes , and serve topped with with green onion . 
4 cups vegetable broth 4 shiitake mushrooms , thinly sliced 1/4 cup miso paste 4 teaspoons soy sauce 1/3 cup diced firm tofu 2 green onions , trimmed and thinly sliced  | Bring the vegetable broth to a boil in a saucepan . Add the mushrooms , reduce heat to low , and simmer 4 minutes . Stir the miso paste and soy sauce together in a small bowl ; add to the broth along with the tofu and continue cooking for 1 minute more . Pour the soup into bowls and top with the green onions to serve . 
1 cup cooked white or brown rice 2 thin slices cooked ham , cubed 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 slice processed cheese food (such as Velveeta ®) (optional) 2 eggs salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon ketchup 1/4 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley  | Heat a skillet over medium heat , and coat with cooking spray . Add the cooked rice , 2 tablespoons ketchup , ham , and cheese , if using . Cook and stir until the ingredients are well combined and heated through , about 8 minutes . Scoop the mixture onto a serving bowl and shape into an oval . In a bowl , beat eggs and salt and pepper . Heat a small skillet coated with cooking spray over medium heat . Add egg mixture ; cook over medium heat . As eggs set , lift edges , letting uncooked portion flow underneath . Use a spatula to gently fold the eggs into a cocoon shape . When eggs are completely set , remove from the heat . Place the omelet on top of the rice and run a knife length-wise through the top layer of the omelet . It should open like a butterfly and drape over the rice . Top with the final tablespoon of ketchup and a sprinkle of parsley . 
1 cup soy sauce 1 cup brown sugar 1 cup water 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 onion , chopped 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper (optional) 1 teaspoon ground paprika (optional) 5 pounds skinless chicken thighs  | Whisk together the soy sauce , brown sugar , water , garlic , onion , ginger , black pepper , oregano , red pepper flakes , cayenne pepper , and paprika in a large glass or ceramic bowl . Add the chicken thighs , and toss to evenly coat . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat , and lightly oil the grate . Remove the chicken thighs from the marinade . Discard the remaining marinade . Grill the chicken thighs on the preheated grill until cooked through , about 15 minutes per side . 
1 cup sweetened red bean paste 1 cup sweet rice flour (mochiko) 1 teaspoon green tea powder (matcha) 1 cup water 1/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup cornstarch , for rolling out the dough  | Wrap red bean paste in aluminum foil and place in the freezer for at least 3 hours . Mix sweet rice flour and green tea powder thoroughly in a microwave-safe glass or ceramic bowl . Stir in water , then sugar . Mix until smooth . Cover bowl with plastic wrap . Cook the rice flour mixture in the microwave for 3 minutes and 30 seconds . Meanwhile , remove red bean paste from the freezer and divide paste into 8 equal balls . Set aside . Stir rice flour mixture and heat for another 15 to 30 seconds . Dust work surface with cornstarch . While the mochi is still hot from the microwave , begin rolling balls the size of about 2 tablespoons . Flatten the mochi ball and place 1 frozen red bean paste ball in the center . Pinch the mochi over the red bean paste until the paste is completely covered . Sprinkle with additional cornstarch and place mochi seam side down in a paper muffin liner to prevent sticking . Repeat until all the mochi and red bean paste is used . 
2 cups uncooked short-grain white rice 2 1/4 cups water 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 teaspoons honey 1 teaspoon minced garlic 3 ounces firm tofu , cut into 1/2 inch strips 2 tablespoons rice vinegar 4 sheets nori seaweed sheets 1/2 cucumber , julienned 1/2 avocado , julienned 1 small carrot , julienned  | In a large saucepan cover rice with water and let stand for 30 minutes . In a shallow dish combine soy sauce , honey and garlic . In this mixture marinate tofu for at least 30 minutes . Bring water and rice to a boil and then reduce heat ; simmer for about 20 minutes , or until thick and sticky . In a large glass bowl combine cooked rice with rice vinegar . Place a sheet of nori on a bamboo mat . Working with wet hands , spread 1/4 of the rice evenly over the nori ; leave about 1/2 inch on the top edge of the nori . Place 2 strips of marinated tofu end to end about 1 inch from the bottom . Place 2 strips of cucumber next to the tofu , then avocado and carrot . Roll nori tightly from the bottom , using the mat to help make a tight roll . Seal by moistening with water the 1/2 inch at the top . Repeat with remaining ingredients . Slice with a serrated knife into 1 inch thick slices . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3/4 cup chopped onion 3 cloves crushed garlic 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1/2 (12 ounce) package firm tofu , cubed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon sherry 4 1/2 cups water 2 cups grated carrots 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach 1/4 cup miso paste ground black pepper to taste  | Pour oil into the bottom of a large saucepan , and place over medium heat . Add onion ; saute until tender and almost brown . Add garlic and ginger ; saute until fragrant , just a minute or two . Add tofu . Cook , stirring occasionally , until browned ; this should take about 5 minutes Stir in soy sauce , thoroughly coating tofu . Add water and sherry . Bring back up to heat , and add carrots and spinach . Heat through . Thin miso with some of the soup , and add back into the soup . Simmer over medium low heat for 5 to 10 minutes , stirring occasionally . Season with black pepper to taste . Serve . 
1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat 3/4 cup white sugar 3/4 cup soy sauce 3/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 3 carrots , julienned 2 onions , thinly sliced 1 (14 ounce) can shredded bamboo , drained 1/2 pound fresh mushrooms , sliced 1 cup trimmed and coarsely chopped watercress 1 (8 ounce) package rice noodles , soaked and cut into 2 inch pieces  | Cut chicken meat into bite size pieces . In a medium bowl combine the sugar , soy sauce , and mirin wine . Mix well , and set aside . In a skillet or wok , heat oil over medium-high heat . Squeeze juice from grated ginger into wok , add grated ginger , and stir fry until brown . Discard ginger fibers . Increase heat to high , and stir in chicken . Season with soy sauce mixture , and cook for 2 more minutes . One at a time add the carrots , onions , bamboo shoots , mushrooms , and watercress . Stir after each addition . Add rice noodles ; cook , stirring , for about 3 more minutes , or until done . 
4 eggs 1/4 cup prepared dashi stock 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 teaspoon mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil , or more as needed  | Beat eggs thoroughly in a bowl ; whisk in dashi stock , sugar , mirin , and soy sauce until sugar has dissolved . Place a nonstick skillet or omelet pan over medium heat . Oil the pan with vegetable oil . Pour a thin layer of egg mixture into the hot pan and swirl to coat pan . When egg layer is firm on the bottom but still slightly liquid on top , lift up about 1 inch of the edge of the omelet with a spatula and fold end over remaining egg layer ; continue rolling the omelet to the end and push the roll to the edge of the skillet . Oil the skillet again if it looks dry ; pour another thin layer of egg into the skillet and lift the roll to let the egg flow underneath the omelet roll . Fold the omelet roll over the new layer of egg , continuing to roll to the end as before . Push omelet to edge of skillet . Pour a new egg layer into the skillet , oiling the pan if needed . Roll the omelet over to incorporate the next egg layer into the roll . Pour new layers and roll into the omelet until all egg mixture has been used . Remove omelet to a serving platter and cut into 6 equal pieces to serve . 
1/2 cup unsalted butter , melted 1 1/4 cups white sugar 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 cups rice flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 3 cups milk 1 (18.75 ounce) can sweetened red bean paste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9-inch Bundt pan or a 9x13 inch baking pan . In a large bowl , mix together the butter , sugar , eggs , vanilla and milk . Stir in the rice flour and baking powder . Pour the batter into the prepared pan . Drop red bean paste by scant teaspoonfuls onto the top of the cake . If spoonfuls are too big , the filling will sink to the bottom . Bake for 1 hour and 10 minutes in the preheated oven , or until cake springs back when lightly touched . If using a Bundt pan , invert the cake onto a serving plate . Cake must be completely cooled before unmolding from Bundt pan , or it will be too soft to hold its shape . Serve small slices of this very rich cake at room temperature or slightly warmed . 
1 cup water 1 tablespoon dashi granules 1/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 tablespoons soy sauce  | In a small saucepan , bring water to a boil . Stir in dashi , and cook for 2 minutes . Remove from heat , and stir in mirin and soy sauce . 
1 (14 ounce) package firm tofu , drained 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon mirin (sweetened rice wine) 2 teaspoons sesame oil , or to taste 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 large tomato , seeded and chopped 1 small red onion , thinly sliced 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 tablespoon sesame seeds  | Place tofu between two plates , and weigh down with a heavy book . Allow tofu to drain for 1 hour , pouring out the expelled liquid every 20 minutes . Whisk together the soy sauce , mirin , sesame oil , and rice vinegar in a small bowl . Heat the oil in a small pan over medium heat , stir in the garlic and ginger , and gently cook until lightly golden ; stir into the soy sauce mixture . Cut tofu into bite-sized pieces , and toss together with the tomato , onion , and cilantro . Pour in the dressing and toss to coat . Garnish with a sprinkle of sesame seeds . 
8 snow peas 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 pound sirloin steak , thinly sliced 4 potatoes , cut into bite sized pieces 2 cups dashi soup 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup sake 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 onion , chopped  | Put the snow peas in a small saucepan with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil and immediately remove from heat . Drain and set aside . Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook the beef in the oil until browned . Add the potatoes ; cook and stir until soft , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir the dashi soup , soy sauce , sake , and sugar into the mixture ; simmer for 10 minutes . Reduce heat to low and scatter the chopped onion over the mixture ; allow to simmer until the liquid is nearly completely evaporated , about 15 minutes more . Top the mixture with the snow peas to serve . 
3 1/2 cups sweet rice flour (mochiko) 2 1/2 cups white sugar 2 tablespoons baking powder 5 eggs 1 teaspoon coconut extract 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups milk 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1/2 cup melted butter  | Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . Whisk the rice flour , sugar , and baking powder together in a mixing bowl . Beat the eggs , coconut extract , and vanilla extract in a mixing bowl until the eggs are smooth . Whisk in the milk , coconut milk , and melted butter until incorporated . Stir in the flour mixture a little at a time until no lumps remain ; scrape into the prepared baking dish , and smooth the top . Bake in the preheated oven until the mochi is golden brown , about 1 hour . Cool to room temperature before cutting into 24 pieces to serve . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 4 (8 ounce) beef tenderloin filets Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper , to taste 3 tablespoons unsalted butter 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger 1 tablespoon minced fresh garlic 1/2 cup thinly sliced fresh shiitake mushrooms 3 tablespoons sake 2 tablespoons mirin (sweetened rice wine) 1 tablespoon finely chopped garlic chives 3/4 cup unsalted butter  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Heat olive oil in a large ovenproof skillet over high heat until lightly smoking . Season filets to taste with salt and pepper . Sear until golden brown on both sides , about 3 minutes per side . Transfer to oven , and cook to desired doneness , about 12 minutes for medium-rare . When done , allow steaks to rest out of the pan for 5 minutes . Meanwhile , melt 3 tablespoons butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat . Stir in ginger and garlic , and cook until translucent and aromatic , but not browned , about 1 1/2 minutes . Add shiitake mushrooms and cook 3 to 4 minutes , until softened . Pour in the sake and mirin and simmer until reduced by half . Melt the remaining 3/4 cup butter , then reduce heat to medium-low , and cook until the butter browns , 6 to 8 minutes . Once browned , season to taste with salt and pepper , and stir in the chives . Spoon sauce over steaks to serve . 
1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon dashi granules 1/2 teaspoon water 1/4 (12 ounce) package silken tofu 1 1/2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon thinly sliced green onion 1 pinch bonito shavings (dry fish flakes) 1 pinch toasted sesame seeds  | Mix the soy sauce , sugar , dashi granules , and water together in small bowl until sugar dissolves . Place the tofu on a small plate and top with ginger , green onion , and bonito shavings . Drizzle the soy mixture on top , and sprinkle with sesame seeds . 
9 eggs 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 1/2 cup mayonnaise 2 teaspoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons wasabi paste 2 teaspoons rice wine vinegar 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onions 4 tablespoons panko bread crumbs  | Place eggs in a saucepan ; cover with water . Bring to a boil , remove from heat , and let eggs stand in hot water for 15 minutes . Remove eggs from hot water , cool under cold running water , and peel . Place sesame seeds in a dry skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir until lightly browned , about 3 minutes . Remove to cool on a plate lined with a paper towel . Cut each egg in half lengthwise ; place egg yolks into a food processor with mayonnaise , soy sauce , wasabi paste , and rice vinegar . Process until smooth ; place green onion and panko bread crumbs into yolk mixture and pulse just enough to mix evenly . Arrange egg white halves on a serving platter ; spoon yolk mixture into whites . Sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds . 
1 1/2 cups prepared dashi stock 3/4 cup soy sauce 3/4 cup mirin 1/4 cup white sugar 8 ounces shirataki noodles 2 tablespoons canola oil 1 pound beef top sirloin , thinly sliced 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon canola oil 2 stalks celery , thinly sliced 2 carrots , thinly sliced 5 green onions , cut into 2 inch pieces 4 ounces sliced fresh mushrooms (button , shiitake , or enoki) 1 (14 ounce) package firm tofu , cut into cubes  | Combine dashi , soy sauce , mirin , and sugar in a bowl and set aside . Soak noodles in boiling water for 1 minute . Drain and rinse under cold water . Heat 2 tablespoons canola oil ; cook and stir beef in the hot oil until no longer pink , 2 to 3 minutes . Drain and set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon canola oil in the skillet ; cook and stir onion , celery , carrot , and mushrooms until softened , about 4 minutes . Stir in green onions , and dashi mixture , noodles , beef , and tofu . Bring to a simmer . Divide hot sukiyaki among four bowls and serve . 
8 frozen mochi squares 1/2 cup soy sauce 1 sheet nori (dry seaweed)  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (275 degrees C) . Dip mochi into soy sauce , then place on a baking sheet . Let bake for about 5 minutes , or until heated through . While mochi is cooking , cut the dried seaweed into 8 strips . Place these strips in a large frying pan over medium heat . When they are warmed , after approximately 1 to 2 minutes , remove them from the heat . Wrap each mochi cake in seaweed ; serve warm . 
32 vanilla wafers , crushed 1 egg , beaten 3/4 cup water 1/3 cup apricot nectar 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/4 cup packed brown sugar 3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1 tablespoon ketchup 2 cups vegetable oil 3/4 pound medium shrimp - peeled and deveined  | In a small bowl mix vanilla wafers , egg , and water until well blended . Refrigerate 1 to 2 hours . To make dipping sauce : In a small sauce pan blend nectar into cornstarch . Stir in brown sugar , vinegar and catsup . Heat mixture over a medium heat , stirring constantly until mixture thickens and comes to a boil . Set aside . In a stockpot or deep fryer heat 2 cups oil to 375 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Dip shrimp in vanilla wafer batter and fry 4 to 6 shrimp at a time until golden brown . Drain well . Serve hot with dipping sauce . 
1/3 cup miso paste 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1/4 cup chopped green onion , white and green parts separated 1/3 cup ground pork 1 (14 ounce) package tofu , cubed  | Whisk miso into the water until dissolved ; set aside . Heat the sesame oil in a frying pan or wok over medium-high heat . Cook the white parts of the green onion until lightly colored and fragrant , 30 seconds to 1 minute . Stir in the ground meat , and cook for a few minutes until nearly done . Gently stir in the tofu with the miso paste . Bring to a simmer , and cook for a few minutes to warm the tofu . Sprinkle with the green parts of the green onions before serving . 
4 teaspoons sake 4 teaspoons mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 teaspoons rice vinegar 1 1/4 pounds clams in shell , scrubbed 3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 green onion , chopped  | Scrub and rinse clams . Soak in a large bowl of cold water for 5 minutes . Drain thoroughly . Heat a wok or large saucepan over high heat . Quickly pour in the sake , mirin and rice vinegar . Add the clams ; cover and cook until the clams open , 3 to 4 minutes . Discard any clams that do not open . Remove any scum that forms on the surface using a spoon or paper towel . Stir in the butter , soy sauce and green onion , tossing to coat the clams as the butter melts . Arrange clams on a serving plate and drizzle the sauce over them . Serve immediately . 
1 ounce dashi kombu (dried kelp) 1 quart water 1/2 cup bonito flakes  | Wipe away any dirt from the kombu with a paper towel , being careful not to rub off the white powdery deposits on the seaweed . Place the kombu and water in a saucepan , and allow it to soak for 30 minutes to become soft . Remove the kombu from the water , and cut several lengthwise slits into the leaf . Return the kombu to the water , and bring it to a boil . As soon as the water begins to boil , remove the kombu to prevent the stock from becoming bitter . Stir the bonito flakes into the kombu-flavored water , bring back to a boil , and take the pan off the heat . Allow the water to cool . When the bonito flakes have settled to the bottom , strain the dashi through a strainer lined with cheesecloth or a coffee filter . 
1 teaspoon green tea powder (matcha) 2 1/2 cups hot water 1/2 cup 2% milk 4 teaspoons honey  | Whisk the green tea powder , water , and milk together in a bowl ; sweeten with the honey and continue whisking until dissolved into the tea . Chill completely in the refrigerator . Serve poured over ice . 
2 large avocados - halved , peeled , and pitted 1 lime , juiced 1 onion , minced 2 jalapeno peppers , or to taste , seeded and minced 10 shiso leaves , chopped 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon wasabi paste 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 2 drops hot pepper sauce (such as Tabasco®) 1 tomato , chopped salt and black pepper to taste  | Place the avocados , lime juice , onion , jalapeno pepper , shiso leaf , ginger , wasabi paste , white pepper , and hot sauce into a bowl . Mash until no large pieces of avocado remain , or to your desired consistency . Gently fold in the chopped tomato and season to taste with salt and pepper before serving . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup honey 1/2 cup sake 1 clove garlic , pressed (optional)  | In a medium bowl , stir together the soy sauce , honey and sake . Mix in the pressed garlic , if using . Use as a marinade and/or a basting sauce while grilling chicken . 
4 portobello mushroom caps 3 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 small clove garlic , minced  | Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source . Wash the mushrooms ; arrange on a baking sheet with top side of the mushroom facing down . Whisk together the soy sauce , sesame oil , ginger , and garlic in a small bowl ; brush the mixture evenly over the mushrooms . Roast the mushrooms under the broiler until soft , about 10 minutes . 
2 cups uncooked glutinous white rice 2 1/2 cups water 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1 (5 ounce) can solid white tuna in water , drained 1 tablespoon mayonnaise 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon wasabi paste 4 sheets nori (dry seaweed) 1/2 cucumber , finely diced 1 carrot , finely diced 1 avocado - peeled , pitted and diced  | Bring the rice , water , and vinegar to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Let stand , covered , for about 10 minutes to absorb any excess water . Set rice aside to cool . Lightly mix together the tuna , mayonnaise , chili powder , and wasabi paste in a bowl , breaking the tuna apart but not mashing it into a paste . To roll the sushi , cover a bamboo sushi rolling mat with plastic wrap . Lay a sheet of nori , rough side up , on the plastic wrap . With wet fingers , firmly pat a thick , even layer of prepared rice over the nori , covering it completely . Place about 1 tablespoon each of diced cucumber , carrot , and avocado in a line along the bottom edge of the sheet , and spread a line of tuna mixture alongside the vegetables . Pick up the edge of the bamboo rolling sheet , fold the bottom edge of the sheet up , enclosing the filling , and tightly roll the sushi into a thick cylinder . Once the sushi is rolled , wrap it in the mat and gently squeeze to compact it tightly . Cut each roll into 6 pieces , and refrigerate until served . 
1 (14 ounce) package firm tofu 1 pound ground beef 1/2 cup sliced shiitake mushrooms 2 tablespoons miso paste 1 egg , lightly beaten 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 cup mirin (Japanese sweet wine) 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon garlic paste 1/4 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | Place the block of tofu onto a plate and place another plate on top . Set a 3 to 5 pound weight on top (a container filled with water works well) . Press the tofu for 10 to 15 minutes , then drain off and discard the accumulated liquid . Cut the tofu into 1/2-inch cubes . Combine the tofu , ground beef , shiitake mushrooms , miso paste , egg , salt , pepper , and nutmeg in a large bowl . Divide into 6 balls , and flatten into patties . Stir together the mirin , soy sauce , garlic paste , and ginger in a small bowl . Set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Brown the burgers on each side , about 2 minutes per side . Reduce the heat to low ; cover the pan and cook until the juices run clear , about 5 minutes . Drain and discard any excess grease . Pour the soy sauce mixture into the pan . Keep moving the pan so the sauce doesn't burn , and flip the burgers occasionally to coat both sides with the sauce . The sauce will thicken and create a shiny glaze on the burgers . When all the sauce has been used up , the burgers are ready . 
4 (4 ounce) boneless pork chops salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 cups oil for frying , or as needed 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 egg , beaten 3/4 cup panko (Japanese-style bread crumbs)  | Place the pork chops between two sheets of heavy plastic (resealable freezer bags work well) on a solid , level surface . Firmly pound the pork with the smooth side of a meat mallet to a 1/4-inch thickness (about .75 cm) . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Pour oil into a skillet about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) deep . Heat the oil over medium-high heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place the flour , egg , and panko crumbs in separate bowls . Coat each cutlet in flour , then egg , and finally in bread crumbs . Tap off any loose crumbs . Fry the cutlets until golden brown and cooked through , about 4 minutes per side . Drain on paper towels . 
4 cups water 1/2 cup bonito flakes 1 (4 inch) piece dashi kombu (dried kelp) 1/2 (12 ounce) package tofu , cut into chunks 1 teaspoon dried wakame 3 tablespoons miso paste 1/4 cup chopped green onions  | Heat water in a large pot over low heat . Add kombu and cook until the mixture just begins to simmer . Stir bonito flakes into kombu mixture until combined . Remove pot from the heat and let dashi sit , uncovered , for 5 minutes . Strain and set aside . Heat 3 1/2 cups dashi in a pot over medium heat . Add tofu and wakame ; stir to combine . Remove 1 cup warmed dashi to a small bowl and whisk in miso paste . Pour miso mixture back into the pot with remaining dashi . Stir until warmed through . Serve garnished with chopped green onions . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 12 shiitake mushrooms , sliced 24 spears fresh asparagus , trimmed 8 thin-cut top round steaks 1/4 cup soy sauce 1 bunch green onions , green parts only  | Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat . Add the mushrooms , cover and allow them to sweat over low heat until soft . Do not let them brown . Meanwhile , bring a large pot or skillet of water to a boil . Blanch asparagus by lowering it in a strainer into boiling water ; cook just until bright green , about 30 seconds , and then transfer asparagus into ice water to stop the cooking . Set aside . Set oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source and preheat the oven's broiler . Grease a broiling pan . To construct the rolls , lay the steaks out flat . If your steaks are thick , pound them to about 1/4 inch thickness . Brush soy sauce onto the surface , then place a few mushrooms , a couple of green onions and 3 asparagus spears at one end of each steak . Roll up towards the other end to enclose , and secure each bundle with a toothpick . Place the rolls seam side down on the broiling pan . Roast under the preheated broiler until browned on top , about 3 minutes . Turn the rolls over and brown on the other side , 2 to 3 more minutes . Be careful not to overcook ; this could burn the steaks or make the meat tough . 
1 cucumber , sliced salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 (8 ounce) package imitation crabmeat , coarsely chopped 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar 1 tablespoon soy sauce  | Place cucumber slices in a bowl and season with salt and pepper . Toss in imitation crabmeat . Whisk vinegar and soy sauce together in a separate bowl . Pour over the cucumber and crab mixture and toss to coat . 
1 1/2 cups cake flour 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 2 teaspoons powdered green tea 6 egg yolks 1 1/4 cups white sugar 2 1/2 tablespoons water 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 6 egg whites 2 teaspoons black sesame seeds , garnish  | Set a bamboo steamer large enough to contain a 9x9 inch pan over simmering water . Sift together the cake flour , baking powder and green tea powder . Set aside . In a large bowl , combine the egg yolks , sugar , water and vanilla extract . Using an electric mixer , beat on medium speed until mixture has tripled in volume . Fold in the flour mixture , mixing just until combined . Beat the egg whites until they form stiff peaks . Gently fold whites into the egg yolk mixture . Pour batter into the cake pan . Place cake pan in steamer . Stretch a kitchen towel over the cake pan without touching the surface , then cover with steamer lid . Steam cake for 20 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean . Cool on wire rack . Sprinkle with black sesame seeds and cut into pieces before serving . 
