1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon cider vinegar 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 clove garlic , minced 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into strips 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1/2 lemon , juiced  In a medium bowl , combine Worcestershire sauce , vinegar , soy sauce , chili powder , garlic and hot pepper sauce . Place chicken in sauce , and turn once to coat . Marinate for 30 minutes at room temperature , or cover and refrigerate for several hours . Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat . Add chicken strips to the pan , and saute for 5 minutes . Add the onion and green pepper , and saute another 3 minutes . Remove from heat , and sprinkle with lemon juice . 
6 fluid ounces tequila 2 fluid ounces triple sec 8 ounces frozen sliced strawberries in syrup 4 fluid ounces frozen limeade concentrate  Fill a blender with ice and crush . Pour in the tequila and triple sec . Add the strawberries and limeade . Blend for 30 seconds or until smooth . Serve in margarita glasses with the rims dipped in powdered sugar . 
3 avocados - peeled , pitted , and mashed 1 lime , juiced 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup diced onion 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper (optional)  In a medium bowl , mash together the avocados , lime juice , and salt . Mix in onion , cilantro , tomatoes , and garlic . Stir in cayenne pepper . Refrigerate 1 hour for best flavor , or serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon chili powder 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon sea salt 1 teaspoon black pepper  In a small bowl , mix together chili powder , garlic powder , onion powder , red pepper flakes , oregano , paprika , cumin , salt and pepper . Store in an airtight container . 
1 pound shredded , cooked chicken 1 (15 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes , mashed 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 1 medium onion , chopped 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups water 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth 1 teaspoon cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 1 bay leaf 1 (10 ounce) package frozen corn 1 tablespoon chopped cilantro 7 corn tortillas vegetable oil  Place chicken , tomatoes , enchilada sauce , onion , green chiles , and garlic into a slow cooker . Pour in water and chicken broth , and season with cumin , chili powder , salt , pepper , and bay leaf . Stir in corn and cilantro . Cover , and cook on Low setting for 6 to 8 hours or on High setting for 3 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly brush both sides of tortillas with oil . Cut tortillas into strips , then spread on a baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven until crisp , about 10 to 15 minutes . To serve , sprinkle tortilla strips over soup . 
2 kiwis , peeled and diced 2 Golden Delicious apples - peeled , cored and diced 8 ounces raspberries 1 pound strawberries 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon brown sugar 3 tablespoons fruit preserves , any flavor 10 (10 inch) flour tortillas butter flavored cooking spray 2 tablespoons cinnamon sugar  In a large bowl , thoroughly mix kiwis , Golden Delicious apples , raspberries , strawberries , white sugar , brown sugar and fruit preserves . Cover and chill in the refrigerator at least 15 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat one side of each flour tortilla with butter flavored cooking spray . Cut into wedges and arrange in a single layer on a large baking sheet . Sprinkle wedges with desired amount of cinnamon sugar . Spray again with cooking spray . Bake in the preheated oven 8 to 10 minutes . Repeat with any remaining tortilla wedges . Allow to cool approximately 15 minutes . Serve with chilled fruit mixture . 
1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1/2 cup sour cream 1 1/2 cups cubed cooked chicken breast meat 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese , divided 6 (12 inch) flour tortillas 1/4 cup milk  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a large baking dish . In a medium saucepan over medium heat , melt the butter and saute the green onion until tender (about 3 to 4 minutes) . Add the garlic powder , then stir in the green chiles , cream of mushroom soup and sour cream . Mix well . Reserve 3/4 of this sauce and set aside . To the remaining 1/4 of the sauce in the saucepan , add the chicken and 1/2 cup of shredded Cheddar cheese . Stir together . Fill each flour tortilla with the chicken mixture and roll up . Place seam side down in the prepared baking dish . In a small bowl combine the reserved 3/4 of the sauce with the milk . Spoon this mixture over the rolled tortillas and top with the remaining 1/2 cup of shredded Cheddar cheese . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes , or until cheese is bubbly . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 4 teaspoons taco seasoning mix 1 cup salsa 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 2 tablespoons sour cream (optional)  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) Place chicken breasts in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Sprinkle taco seasoning on both sides of chicken breasts , and pour salsa over all . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 25 to 35 minutes , or until chicken is tender and juicy and its juices run clear . Sprinkle chicken evenly with cheese , and continue baking for an additional 3 to 5 minutes , or until cheese is melted and bubbly . Top with sour cream if desired , and serve . 
2 pounds ground beef 1 onion , chopped 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 (2 ounce) can black olives , sliced 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chili peppers 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 1 (16 ounce) jar taco sauce 2 (16 ounce) cans refried beans 12 (8 inch) flour tortillas 9 ounces shredded Colby cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet over medium heat , saute the ground beef for 5 minutes . Add the onion and garlic , and saute for 5 more minutes . Drain any excess fat , if desired . Mix in the olives , green chile peppers , tomatoes with green chile peppers , taco sauce and refried beans . Stir mixture thoroughly , reduce heat to low , and let simmer for 15 to 20 minutes . Spread a thin layer of the meat mixture in the bottom of a 4 quart casserole dish . Cover with a layer of tortillas followed by more meat mixture , then a layer of cheese . Repeat tortilla , meat , cheese pattern until all the tortillas are used , topping off with a layer of meat mixture and cheese . Bake for 20 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , or until cheese is slightly brown and bubbly . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup uncooked long-grain rice 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup tomato sauce 2 cups chicken broth  Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat and add rice . Cook , stirring constantly , until puffed and golden . While rice is cooking , sprinkle with salt and cumin . Stir in onions and cook until tender . Stir in tomato sauce and chicken broth ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes . Fluff with a fork . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 onion , chopped 1/2 pint sour cream 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt (optional) 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon chili powder 1/3 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 clove garlic , minced 8 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 (12 ounce) jar taco sauce 3/4 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium , non-stick skillet over medium heat , cook chicken until no longer pink and juices run clear . Drain excess fat . Cube the chicken and return it to the skillet . Add the onion , sour cream , Cheddar cheese , parsley , oregano and ground black pepper . Heat until cheese melts . Stir in salt , tomato sauce , water , chili powder , green pepper and garlic . Roll even amounts of the mixture in the tortillas . Arrange in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Cover with taco sauce and 3/4 cup Cheddar cheese . Bake uncovered in the preheated oven 20 minutes . Cool 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 (16 ounce) container sour cream 1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 large tomato , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 bunch chopped green onions 1 small head iceberg lettuce , shredded 1 (6 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  In a medium bowl , blend the taco seasoning mix and refried beans . Spread the mixture onto a large serving platter . Mix the sour cream and cream cheese in a medium bowl . Spread over the refried beans . Top the layers with salsa . Place a layer of tomato , green bell pepper , green onions and lettuce over the salsa , and top with Cheddar cheese . Garnish with black olives . 
1 (3 1/2) pound boneless pork shoulder , trimmed and cut into 2 inch chunks 2 oranges , quartered 1 large white onion , quartered 6 cloves garlic , peeled and crushed 1/4 cup kosher salt 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns 2 bay leaves  Place the pork shoulder , oranges , onion , garlic , kosher salt , cumin , black peppercorns , and bay leaves into a large Dutch oven . Add water to cover . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce the heat to medium-low , and simmer for 10 minutes . Skim off any foam that rises to the top . Cover loosely , and simmer until the meat is tender , about 1 1/2 hours . Allow the pork to cool , covered , in the broth for 1 hour . Shred the meat with two forks . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 6 cups canned kidney beans , drained 2 cups water 3 tablespoons chili powder 4 teaspoons prepared mustard 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 pinch cayenne pepper , or to taste 3 tablespoons soy sauce 4 cups mashed cooked sweet potatoes 12 (10 inch) flour tortillas , warmed 8 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat oil in a medium skillet and saute onion and garlic until soft . Mash beans into the onion mixture . Gradually stir in water ; heat until warm , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove from heat and stir in the soy sauce , chili powder , mustard , cumin , and cayenne pepper . Divide bean mixture and mashed sweet potatoes evenly between the tortillas ; top with cheese . Fold tortillas burrito-style around the fillings and place on a baking sheet . Bake in the preheated oven until warmed through , about 12 minutes . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cut into chunks 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 1/4 cups sour cream 1/4 teaspoon chili powder 1 tablespoon butter 1 small onion , chopped 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chilies , drained 1 (1.25 ounce) package mild taco seasoning mix 1 bunch green onions , chopped , divided 1 cup water 1 teaspoon lime juice 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 5 (12 inch) flour tortillas 3 cups Cheddar cheese , shredded , divided 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 1 (6 ounce) can sliced black olives  Place the chicken in a large pot and add water to cover . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce the heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the chicken pieces are no longer pink , about 10 minutes . Shred chicken by placing two forks back to back and pulling meat apart . Set the shredded chicken aside . Meanwhile , combine the cream of chicken soup , sour cream , and chili powder in a saucepan . Bring to a simmer over low heat , stirring occasionally , then turn off the heat and cover to keep warm . Heat the butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the shredded chicken , chopped green chilies , taco seasoning , half of the bunch of chopped green onion , and water . Allow to simmer for 10 minutes . Stir in the lime juice , onion powder , and garlic powder ; simmer for an additional 10 minutes . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Stir 1 cup of the soup mixture into the skillet with the chicken mixture . Spread the remaining soup mixture on the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Fill each tortilla with chicken mixture . Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over the chicken filling before folding the tortillas , reserving half of the shredded cheese for topping the enchiladas . Fold tortillas over the filling and place seam-side down in the prepared pan . Pour enchilada sauce evenly over the enchiladas . Cover with the remaining 1 1/2 cups of Cheddar cheese . Sprinkle the reserved chopped green onions and the sliced olives on top of the cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until filling is heated through and the cheese is melted and bubbling , about 25 minutes . 
1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed 1/8 cup red wine vinegar 1/2 lime , juiced 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 green onions , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dried oregano 10 (6 inch) flour tortillas 1 tomato , diced 1/4 cup shredded lettuce 1/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1/4 cup salsa  Saute chicken in a medium saucepan over medium high heat for about 20 minutes . Add vinegar , lime juice , sugar , salt , pepper , green onion , garlic and oregano . Simmer for an extra 10 minutes . Heat an iron skillet over medium heat . Place a tortilla in the pan , warm , and turn over to heat the other side . Repeat with remaining tortillas . Serve lime chicken mixture in warm tortillas topped with tomato , lettuce , cheese and salsa . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 1 cup beer 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 lime , juiced 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 1 teaspoon minced capers 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon dried dill weed 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 quart oil for frying 1 pound cod fillets , cut into 2 to 3 ounce portions 1 (12 ounce) package corn tortillas 1/2 medium head cabbage , finely shredded  To make beer batter : In a large bowl , combine flour , cornstarch , baking powder , and salt . Blend egg and beer , then quickly stir into the flour mixture (don't worry about a few lumps) . To make white sauce : In a medium bowl , mix together yogurt and mayonnaise . Gradually stir in fresh lime juice until consistency is slightly runny . Season with jalapeno , capers , oregano , cumin , dill , and cayenne . Heat oil in deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Dust fish pieces lightly with flour . Dip into beer batter , and fry until crisp and golden brown . Drain on paper towels . Lightly fry tortillas ; not too crisp . To serve , place fried fish in a tortilla , and top with shredded cabbage , and white sauce . 
1 onion , peeled and halved 3 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 1/2 fresh jalapeno pepper , seeded and chopped 2 tablespoons minced garlic 5 teaspoons salt 1 3/4 teaspoons fresh ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground cumin , optional 9 cups water  Place the onion , rinsed beans , jalapeno , garlic , salt , pepper , and cumin into a slow cooker . Pour in the water and stir to combine . Cook on High for 8 hours , adding more water as needed . Note : if more than 1 cup of water has evaporated during cooking , then the temperature is too high . Once the beans have cooked , strain them , and reserve the liquid . Mash the beans with a potato masher , adding the reserved water as needed to attain desired consistency . 
2 quarts water 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 2 tablespoons dried parsley 1 tablespoon onion powder 5 cubes chicken bouillon 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (16 ounce) jar chunky salsa 2 (14.5 ounce) cans peeled and diced tomatoes 1 (14.5 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed tomato soup 3 tablespoons chili powder 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 2 (16 ounce) cans chili beans , undrained 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream  In a large pot over medium heat , combine water , chicken , salt , pepper , garlic powder , parsley , onion powder and bouillon cubes . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat and simmer 1 hour , or until chicken juices run clear . Remove chicken , reserve broth . Shred chicken . In a large pot over medium heat , cook onion and garlic in olive oil until slightly browned . Stir in salsa , diced tomatoes , whole tomatoes , tomato soup , chili powder , corn , chili beans , sour cream , shredded chicken and 5 cups broth . Simmer 30 minutes . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breasts , cut into cubes 1/2 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 (14.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 1 cup frozen corn kernels 1 cup chopped onion 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 cup chunky salsa 8 ounces corn tortilla chips 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese (optional)  In a large pot over medium heat , cook and stir chicken in the oil for 5 minutes . Add the garlic and cumin and mix well . Then add the broth , corn , onion , chili powder , lemon juice , and salsa . Reduce heat to low and simmer for about 20 to 30 minutes . Break up some tortilla chips into individual bowls and pour soup over chips . Top with the Monterey Jack cheese and a little sour cream . 
1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans , drained and rinsed 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 (10 ounce) package frozen corn kernels 1 red onion , chopped 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon salt 1 clove crushed garlic 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 tablespoon ground cumin 1/2 tablespoon ground black pepper 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1/2 teaspoon chili powder  In a large bowl , combine beans , bell peppers , frozen corn , and red onion . In a small bowl , whisk together olive oil , red wine vinegar , lime juice , lemon juice , sugar , salt , garlic , cilantro , cumin , and black pepper . Season to taste with hot sauce and chili powder . Pour olive oil dressing over vegetables ; mix well . Chill thoroughly , and serve cold . 
1 pound ground beef 1 onion , chopped 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans , with liquid 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans with liquid 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , with liquid 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 cups water 2 (14.5 ounce) cans peeled and diced tomatoes 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chile peppers 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix  In a medium skillet , cook the ground beef until browned over medium heat . Drain , and set aside . Place the ground beef , onion , chili beans , kidney beans , corn , tomato sauce , water , diced tomatoes , green chile peppers and taco seasoning mix in a slow cooker . Mix to blend , and cook on Low setting for 8 hours . 
2 (10 inch) flour tortillas 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 teaspoon minced jalapeno peppers 3 ounces cream cheese 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  Wrap tortillas in foil and place in oven heated to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bake for 15 minutes or until heated through . Heat oil in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat . Place onion , bell pepper , garlic and jalapenos in skillet , cook for 2 minutes stirring occasionally . Pour beans into skillet , cook 3 minutes stirring . Cut cream cheese into cubes and add to skillet with salt . Cook for 2 minutes stirring occasionally . Stir cilantro into mixture . Spoon mixture evenly down center of warmed tortilla and roll tortillas up . Serve immediately . 
2 cloves garlic 3 serrano peppers 1 pound small green tomatillos , husks removed 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 9 corn tortillas 3 cups water 4 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 store-bought rotisserie chicken , meat removed and shredded 1/4 head iceberg lettuce , shredded 1 cup cilantro leaves 1 (8 ounce) container Mexican crema , crema fresca 1 cup grated cotija cheese  Cover a large griddle with aluminum foil and preheat to medium-high . Cook the garlic , serrano peppers , and tomatillos on the hot griddle until toasted and blackened , turning occasionally , about 5 minutes for the garlic , 10 minutes for the peppers , and 15 minutes for the tomatillos . Remove to a bowl and allow to cool . Heat oil in a small , deep skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Using kitchen tongs , fry the tortillas individually , turning them once . They shouldn't be in the hot oil for more than 5 seconds per side . Remove excess oil with paper towels and keep warm . Remember that the hotter the oil , the less that the tortillas will absorb . Place the toasted garlic , serrano peppers , tomatillos , and the water in a blender and blend until smooth ; pour into a saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil . Dissolve the chicken bouillon into the mixture , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook at a simmer until slightly thickened , about 10 minutes . The sauce shouldn't be too thick . Soak three tortillas in the sauce , one at a time , for a few seconds , fill them with shredded chicken , sprinkle the meat with some of the sauce , roll them and place them seam side down on a pasta bowl . Spoon a generous amount of sauce over them and top them with lettuce , cilantro , crema , and cotija cheese . Pour a little more sauce over the whole thing if desired . Repeat the procedure twice more . Serve immediately . 
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract 2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls 3/4 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 cup butter , room temperature 1/4 cup honey  Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Prepare a 9x13 inch baking dish with cooking spray . Beat the cream cheese with 1 cup of sugar and the vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth . Unroll the cans of crescent roll dough , and use a rolling pin to shape each piece into 9x13 inch rectangles . Press one piece into the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Evenly spread the cream cheese mixture into the baking dish , then cover with the remaining piece of crescent dough . Stir together 3/4 cup of sugar , cinnamon , and butter . Dot the mixture over the top of the cheesecake . Bake in the preheated oven until the crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown , about 30 minutes . Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey . Cool completely in the pan before cutting into 12 squares . 
1 pound lean ground beef 2 cups salsa 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans , drained 3 cups tortilla chips , crushed 2 cups sour cream 1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained 1/2 cup chopped green onion 1/2 cup chopped fresh tomato 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet over medium-high heat , cook ground beef until no longer pink . Stir in salsa , reduce heat , and simmer 20 minutes , or until liquid is absorbed . Stir in beans , and heat through . Spray a 9x13 baking dish with cooking spray . Spread crushed tortilla chips in dish , and then spoon beef mixture over chips . Spread sour cream over beef , and sprinkle olives , green onion , and tomato over the sour cream . Top with Cheddar cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , or until hot and bubbly . 
2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1 1/2 cups vegetable broth 1 cup chunky salsa 1 teaspoon ground cumin 4 tablespoons sour cream 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion  In an electric food processor or blender , combine beans , broth , salsa , and cumin . Blend until fairly smooth . Heat the bean mixture in a saucepan over medium heat until thoroughly heated . Ladle soup into 4 individual bowls , and top each bowl with 1 tablespoon of the sour cream and 1/2 tablespoon green onion . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup uncooked white rice 1 onion , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 2 cups water 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes and green chiles 2 teaspoons chili powder , or to taste 1 teaspoon salt  Heat oil in a deep skillet over medium heat . Saute rice , onion , and bell pepper until rice is browned and onions are tender . Stir in water and tomatoes . Season with chili powder and salt . Cover , and simmer for 30 minutes , or until rice is cooked and liquid is absorbed . 
1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed chicken broth 1 1/4 cups water 1 cup whole corn kernels , cooked 1 cup white hominy 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 2 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and cut into bite-sized pieces crushed tortilla chips sliced avocado shredded Monterey Jack cheese chopped green onions  In a medium stock pot , heat oil over medium heat . Saute onion and garlic in oil until soft . Stir in chili powder , oregano , tomatoes , broth , and water . Bring to a boil , and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes . Stir in corn , hominy , chiles , beans , cilantro , and chicken . Simmer for 10 minutes . Ladle soup into individual serving bowls , and top with crushed tortilla chips , avocado slices , cheese , and chopped green onion . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 3 tablespoons finely chopped onion 1 (15.5 ounce) can black beans , drained and rinsed 1 (10 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 tablespoon brown sugar 1/4 cup salsa 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons butter , divided 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese , divided  Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in onion , and cook until softened , about 2 minutes . Stir in beans and corn , then add sugar , salsa , and pepper flakes ; mix well . Cook until heated through , about 3 minutes . Melt 2 teaspoons of the butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Place a tortilla in the skillet , sprinkle evenly with cheese , then top with some of the bean mixture . Place another tortilla on top , cook until golden , then flip and cook on the other side . Melt more butter as needed , and repeat with remaining tortillas and filling . 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon crumbled dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 (4 pound) boneless pork shoulder roast 2 bay leaves 2 cups chicken broth  Mix together salt , garlic powder , cumin , oregano , coriander , and cinnamon in a bowl . Coat pork with the spice mixture . Place the bay leaves in the bottom of a slow cooker and place the pork on top . Pour the chicken broth around the sides of the pork , being careful not to rinse off the spice mixture . Cover and cook on Low until the pork shreds easily with a fork , about 10 hours . Turn the meat after it has cooked for 5 hours . When the pork is tender , remove from slow cooker , and shred with two forks . Use cooking liquid as needed to moisten the meat . 
1 1/3 cups uncooked white rice 2 2/3 cups water 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 onion , chopped 1 1/2 cups mild salsa  Place rice and water in a saucepan , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes . Meanwhile , place chicken breast halves into a large saucepan , and fill the pan with water . Bring to a boil , and cook for 20 minutes , or until done . Remove chicken from water . When cool enough to handle , cut meat into bite-size pieces . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a medium bowl , combine Monterey Jack and Cheddar cheeses . In a separate bowl , mix together cream of chicken soup , cream of mushroom soup , onion , and salsa . Layer 1/2 of the rice , 1/2 of the chicken , 1/2 of the soup and salsa mixture , and 1/2 of the cheese mixture in prepared dish . Repeat layers , ending with cheese . Bake in preheated oven for about 40 minutes , or until bubbly . 
1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 (1.25 ounce) package dry taco seasoning mix 1 lime , juiced 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 3 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  Place the salsa , taco seasoning , lime juice , and cilantro into a slow cooker , and stir to combine . Add the chicken breasts , and stir to coat with the salsa mixture . Cover the cooker , set to High , and cook until the chicken is very tender , about 4 hours . If desired , set cooker to Low and cook 6 to 8 hours . Shred chicken with 2 forks to serve . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half 2 tablespoons minced green onion 2 tablespoons minced red bell pepper 1/3 cup frozen corn kernels 1/4 cup black beans , rinsed and drained 2 tablespoons frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 2 tablespoons diced jalapeno peppers 1/2 tablespoon minced fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/3 teaspoon salt 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper 3/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 5 (6 inch) flour tortillas 1 quart oil for deep frying  Rub 1 tablespoon vegetable oil over chicken breast . In a medium saucepan over medium heat , cook chicken approximately 5 minutes per side , until meat is no longer pink and juices run clear . Remove from heat and set aside . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon vegetable oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Stir in green onion and red pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , until tender . Dice chicken and mix into the pan with onion and red pepper . Mix in corn , black beans , spinach , jalapeno peppers , parsley , cumin , chili powder , salt and cayenne pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , until well blended and tender . Remove from heat and stir in Monterey Jack cheese so that it melts . Wrap tortillas with a clean , lightly moist cloth . Microwave on high approximately 1 minute , or until hot and pliable . Spoon even amounts of the mixture into each tortilla . Fold ends of tortillas , then roll tightly around mixture . Secure with toothpicks . Arrange in a medium dish , cover with plastic , and place in the freezer . Freeze at least 4 hours . In a large , deep skillet , heat oil for deep frying to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Deep fry frozen , stuffed tortillas 10 minutes each , or until dark golden brown . Drain on paper towels before serving . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2/3 cup diced onion 1 1/2 cups uncooked white rice 1 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 1/2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 2 teaspoons salt 1 clove garlic , minced 1/8 teaspoon powdered saffron 3 cups water  In a large saucepan , heat vegetable oil over a medium-low heat . Place the onions in the pan , and saute until golden . Add rice to pan , and stir to coat grains with oil . Mix in green bell pepper , cumin , chili powder , tomato sauce , salt , garlic , saffron , and water . Cover , bring to a boil , and then reduce heat to simmer . Cook for 30 to 40 minutes , or until rice is tender . Stir occasionally . 
1 (15 ounce) can black-eyed peas 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 (4 ounce) can diced jalapeno peppers 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , drained 1 cup Italian-style salad dressing 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt  In a medium bowl , combine black-eyed peas , black beans , corn , onion , green bell pepper , jalapeno peppers and tomatoes . Season with Italian-style salad dressing and garlic salt ; mix well . Cover , and refrigerate overnight to blend flavors . 
1/2 cup vegetable oil 1/3 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 1/2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 pounds flank steak  In a medium bowl , mix the oil , soy sauce , vinegar , lemon juice , Worcestershire sauce , mustard , garlic , and ground black pepper . Place meat in a shallow glass dish . Pour marinade over the steak , turning meat to coat thoroughly . Cover , and refrigerate for 6 hours . Preheat grill for medium-high heat . Oil the grill grate . Place steaks on the grill , and discard the marinade . Grill meat for 5 minutes per side , or to desired doneness . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - boiled and shredded 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 (7 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1/2 cup sour cream 2 cups cottage cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 12 (6 inch) corn tortillas 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 (10 ounce) can red enchilada sauce  To Make Meat Mixture : Heat oil in medium skillet over medium high heat . Add chicken , onion and green chile peppers and saute until browned , then add taco seasoning and prepare meat mixture according to package directions . To Make Cheese Mixture : In a medium bowl mix sour cream with cottage cheese and season with salt and pepper ; stir until well blended . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . To Assemble Enchiladas : Heat tortillas until soft . In each tortilla place a spoonful of meat mixture , a spoonful of cheese mixture and a bit of shredded cheese . Roll tortillas and place in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Top with any remaining meat and cheese mixture , enchilada sauce and remaining shredded cheese . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 minutes or until cheese is melted and bubbly . 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup unsalted butter 1 cup white sugar 5 eggs 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups whole milk 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 1 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour one 9x13 inch baking pan . Sift flour and baking powder together and set aside . Cream butter or margarine and the 1 cup sugar together until fluffy . Add eggs and the 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract ; beat well . Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture 2 tablespoons at a time ; mix until well blended . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 minutes . Pierce cake several times with a fork . Combine the whole milk , condensed milk , and evaporated milk together . Pour over the top of the cooled cake . Whip whipping cream , the remaining 1 cup of the sugar , and the remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla together until thick . Spread over the top of cake . Be sure and keep cake refrigerated , enjoy ! 
1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1/2 cup sour cream 1 tablespoon margarine 1 onion , chopped 1 teaspoon chili powder 2 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers , drained 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a small bowl mix the soup and sour cream ; set aside . Melt margarine in a medium saucepan over medium high heat . Add onion and chili powder , and saute until tender . Stir in the chicken , chile peppers , and 2 tablespoons of the soup mixture . Cook and stir until heated through . Spread 1/2 cup of the soup mixture in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Spoon about 1/4 cup of the chicken mixture down the center of each tortilla . Roll up tortillas , and place , seam-side-down , in the baking dish . Spoon remaining soup mixture on top , and sprinkle with cheese . Bake 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until bubbly and lightly browned . 
1 pound ground beef 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 (4.5 ounce) can diced green chile peppers 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 1 (15 ounce) can chili without beans 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed tomato soup 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 6 (12 inch) flour tortillas , warmed 2 cups shredded lettuce 1 cup chopped tomatoes 2 cups shredded Mexican blend cheese 1/2 cup chopped green onions  Crumble ground beef into a skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir until evenly browned . Add onion , and cook until translucent . Drain grease , and season with garlic , cumin , salt and pepper . Stir in the green chilies and refried beans until well blended . Turn off heat , but keep warm . In a saucepan , combine the chili without beans , tomato soup and enchilada sauce . Mix well , and cook over medium heat until heated through . Turn off heat and keep warm . Place a warmed tortilla on a plate , and spoon a generous 1/2 cup of the ground beef mixture onto the center . Top with lettuce and tomato to your liking . Roll up tortilla over the filling . Spoon a generous amount of the sauce over the top , and sprinkle with cheese and green onions . Heat in the microwave for 30 seconds , or until cheese is melted . Repeat with remaining tortillas . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 tablespoons self-rising flour 1/4 cup New Mexico or California chili powder 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups water 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon onion salt salt to taste  Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in flour and chili powder , reduce heat to medium , and cook until lightly brown , stirring constantly to prevent burning flour . Gradually stir in tomato sauce , water , cumin , garlic powder , and onion salt into the flour and chili powder until smooth , and continue cooking over medium heat approximately 10 minutes , or until thickened slightly . Season to taste with salt . 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon cider vinegar 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 clove garlic , minced 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into strips 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1/2 lemon , juiced  In a medium bowl , combine Worcestershire sauce , vinegar , soy sauce , chili powder , garlic and hot pepper sauce . Place chicken in sauce , and turn once to coat . Marinate for 30 minutes at room temperature , or cover and refrigerate for several hours . Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat . Add chicken strips to the pan , and saute for 5 minutes . Add the onion and green pepper , and saute another 3 minutes . Remove from heat , and sprinkle with lemon juice . 
1 cup butter , melted 1 cup white sugar 4 eggs 1 (15 ounce) can cream-style corn 1/2 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers , drained 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup yellow cornmeal 4 teaspoons baking powder 1/4 teaspoon salt  Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a large bowl , beat together butter and sugar . Beat in eggs one at a time . Blend in cream corn , chiles , Monterey Jack and Cheddar cheese . In a separate bowl , stir together flour , cornmeal , baking powder and salt . Add flour mixture to corn mixture ; stir until smooth . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour , until a toothpick inserted into center of the pan comes out clean . 
2 1/2 cups fresh corn kernels 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/4 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1 pound zucchini , sliced 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped 1 fresh poblano chile pepper - seeded , deveined , and chopped salt and black pepper to taste 1/4 cup crumbled cotija cheese  Place the corn in a saucepan with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil . Place a cover on the saucepan , reduce heat to medium , and cook until tender , about 10 minutes . Drain . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; cook and stir the onion and garlic in the hot oil until fragrant , about 5 minutes . Mix the zucchini and tomato into the onion and garlic ; cook together 5 minutes . Stir the corn kernels into the mixture ; add the poblano pepper . Season with salt and pepper ; stir . Cover the skillet with a lid and cook until the zucchini is tender , about 10 minutes . Sprinkle with the cotija cheese to serve . 
1 cup butter 1/2 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 2 teaspoons water 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup chopped almonds 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar  In a medium bowl , cream the butter and sugar . Stir in vanilla and water . Add the flour and almonds , mix until blended . Cover and chill for 3 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Shape dough into balls or crescents . Place on an unprepared cookie sheet and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove from pan to cool on wire racks . When cookies are cool , roll in confectioners' sugar . Store at room temperature in an airtight container . 
10 cups water 2 tablespoons lard 2 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 2 teaspoons salt  Measure water and lard into a large pot . Bring to a boil and add beans . Cook over medium heat for 2 to 2 1/2 hours . Season with salt and continue cooking until tender , about 30 more minutes . 
1 cup water 1/2 cup white sugar 3 avocados , peeled and pitted 1 lime , juiced 1/4 teaspoon salt  Bring water and sugar to a boil together in a saucepan ; stir continually until sugar dissolves . Set aside to cool . Pour sugar-water mixture into a blender with avocados , lime juice , and salt ; blend until smooth . Pour the mixture into 10 ice pop molds . Freeze until solid yet still soft , about 2 hours ; insert wooden sticks and continue freezing until firm , 12 to 24 hours . 
1 onion , chopped 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans 1 (15 ounce) can black beans 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle beer 2 (10 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with green chilies , undrained 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning 3 whole skinless , boneless chicken breasts 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese (optional) sour cream (optional) crushed tortilla chips (optional)  Place the onion , chili beans , black beans , corn , tomato sauce , beer , and diced tomatoes in a slow cooker . Add taco seasoning , and stir to blend . Lay chicken breasts on top of the mixture , pressing down slightly until just covered by the other ingredients . Set slow cooker for low heat , cover , and cook for 5 hours . Remove chicken breasts from the soup , and allow to cool long enough to be handled . Stir the shredded chicken back into the soup , and continue cooking for 2 hours . Serve topped with shredded Cheddar cheese , a dollop of sour cream , and crushed tortilla chips , if desired . 
