3 cloves garlic , peeled and minced 1 1/2 cups plain yogurt 1 pinch salt 1 quart water 1 tablespoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 6 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon paprika  In a small bowl , combine the garlic , yogurt and pinch of salt ; mix well . In a large saucepan or stockpot , combine water , vinegar and 1 teaspoon salt ; bring to a boil over high heat . When the water is boiling hard , reduce the heat and gently break the eggs into the water , spacing them well apart . Cook until the whites have set over the yolks , immediately remove the eggs with a slotted spoon and place on a serving dish . Melt butter in a small skillet or saucepan . Stir in paprika . Pour yogurt sauce over eggs and top with paprika butter . Your cilbir is ready ! 
1 clove garlic 1 (19 ounce) can garbanzo beans , half the liquid reserved 4 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons tahini 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon salt black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil  In a blender , chop the garlic . Pour garbanzo beans into blender , reserving about a tablespoon for garnish . Place lemon juice , tahini , chopped garlic and salt in blender . Blend until creamy and well mixed . Transfer the mixture to a medium serving bowl . Sprinkle with pepper and pour olive oil over the top . Garnish with reserved garbanzo beans . 
1 1/8 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast  Place all ingredients in bread pan of your bread machine , select Dough setting and start . When dough has risen long enough , machine will beep . Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface . Gently roll and stretch dough into a 12 inch rope . With a sharp knife , divide dough into 8 pieces . Roll each into a smooth ball . With a rolling pin , roll each ball into a 6 to 7 inch circle . Set aside on a lightly floured countertop . cover with a towel . Let pitas rise about 30 minutes until slightly puffy . Preheat oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C) . Place 2 or 3 pitas on a wire cake rack . Place cake rack directly on oven rack . Bake pitas 4 to 5 minutes until puffed and tops begin to brown . Remove from oven and immediately place pitas in a sealed brown paper bag or cover them with a damp kitchen towel until soft . Once pitas a softened , either cut in half or split top edge for half or whole pitas . They can be stored in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for several days or in the freezer for 1 or 2 months . 
6 tablespoons olive oil 1 large white onion , sliced into rings 1 1/3 cups uncooked green lentils 3/4 cup uncooked long-grain white rice salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup plain yogurt or sour cream (optional)  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onions , and cook about 10 minutes , until browned . Remove from heat , and set aside . Place lentils in a medium saucepan with enough lightly salted water to cover . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer about 15 minutes . Stir rice and enough water to cover into the saucepan with the lentils . Season with salt and pepper . Cover saucepan , and continue to simmer 15 to 20 minutes , until rice and lentils are tender . Mix half the onions into the lentil mixture . Top with yogurt or sour cream and remaining onions to serve . 
1/4 cup butter 2 ounces uncooked spaghetti , broken 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1 1/4 cups uncooked jasmine rice 2 1/4 cups vegetable broth salt and pepper to taste 1/2 pound fresh asparagus , trimmed and cut into 2 inch pieces 1/2 cup cashew halves  Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat . Increase heat to medium , and stir in spaghetti , cooking until coated with the melted butter and lightly browned . Stir onion and garlic into the saucepan , and cook about 2 minutes , until tender . Stir in jasmine rice , and cook about 5 minutes . Pour in vegetable broth . Season mixture with salt and pepper . Bring the mixture to a boil , cover , and cook 20 minutes , until rice is tender and liquid has been absorbed . Place asparagus in a separate medium saucepan with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until tender but firm . Mix asparagus and cashew halves into the rice mixture , and serve warm . 
1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained , liquid reserved 1 clove garlic , crushed 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon olive oil  In a blender or food processor combine garbanzo beans , garlic , cumin , salt and olive oil . Blend on low speed , gradually adding reserved bean liquid , until desired consistency is achieved . 
12 pita bread pockets 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon dried chervil  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Cut each pita bread into 8 triangles . Place triangles on lined cookie sheet . In a small bowl , combine the oil , pepper , salt , basil and chervil . Brush each triangle with oil mixture . Bake in the preheated oven for about 7 minutes , or until lightly browned and crispy . Watch carefully , as they tend to burn easily ! 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1 cup uncooked basmati rice 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 quart chicken stock 1 1/2 pounds ground turkey 2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , drained and rinsed 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1 bunch chopped fresh cilantro (optional) 1 bunch chopped fresh parsley (optional) 1/4 cup pine nuts (optional) salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , and cook 1 minute . Stir in rice , cumin , coriander , turmeric , and cayenne pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , then pour in chicken stock . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes . Place the turkey in a skillet over medium heat , and cook until evenly brown . Gently mix cooked turkey , garbanzo beans , black beans , cilantro , parsley , and pine nuts into the cooked rice . Season with salt and pepper . 
1 eggplant 1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup tahini 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 2 cloves garlic , minced salt and pepper to taste 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Place eggplant on baking sheet , and make holes in the skin with a fork . Roast it for 30 to 40 minutes , turning occasionally , or until soft . Remove from oven , and place into a large bowl of cold water . Remove from water , and peel skin off . Place eggplant , lemon juice , tahini , sesame seeds , and garlic in an electric blender , and puree . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Transfer eggplant mixture to a medium size mixing bowl , and slowly mix in olive oil . Refrigerate for 3 hours before serving . 
1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained , liquid reserved 2 ounces fresh jalapeno pepper , sliced 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 2 tablespoons lemon juice 3 cloves garlic , minced  In a blender or food processor , combine garbanzo beans , jalapeno , cumin , lemon juice , garlic and 1 tablespoon of the reserved bean liquid . Blend until smooth . 
1 cup couscous 1 cup boiling water 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup diced red bell pepper 4 green onions , sliced 1 cup cherry tomatoes 1 cup fresh basil leaves 1 pinch salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 1 dash balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Stir couscous into boiling water and return water to a boil . Cover and remove pot from heat . Let stand 5 minutes , then fluff with a fork . While the couscous is cooking , heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in garlic , green onions and peppers ; saute briefly . Stir in tomatoes , basil , cooked couscous , salt and pepper . Mix together and transfer to a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish . Splash some balsamic vinegar on top . Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 20 minutes . Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese while still warm . 
4 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 pound ground lamb 3 tablespoons grated onion 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 tablespoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 28 bamboo skewers , soaked in water for 30 minutes  Mash the garlic into a paste with the salt using a mortar and pestle or the flat side of a chef's knife on your cutting board . Mix the garlic into the lamb along with the onion , parsley , coriander , cumin , cinnamon , allspice , cayenne pepper , ginger , and pepper in a mixing bowl until well blended . Form the mixture into 28 balls . Form each ball around the tip of a skewer , flattening into a 2 inch oval ; repeat with the remaining skewers . Place the kebabs onto a baking sheet , cover , and refrigerate at least 30 minutes , or up to 12 hours . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat , and lightly oil grate . Cook the skewers on the preheated grill , turning occasionally , until the lamb has cooked to your desired degree of doneness , about 6 minutes for medium . 
1 large eggplant 1 head garlic 1 tablespoon refined olive oil 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons tahini 1 teaspoon Splenda® (optional) salt and pepper to taste  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F . Pierce the skin of the eggplant in 6 to 10 places with a knife . This will prevent the eggplant from exploding . Place on a roasting pan . Place in a 375 degrees F oven and roast for 30 minutes . With good knife , cut off the top 1/2 inch of the head of garlic exposing the fleshy tops of most of the cloves . Thoroughly coat the garlic with the olive oil and place on the roasting pan next to the eggplant for the last 20 minutes of cooking . Remove eggplant and garlic and let cool . Once the eggplant is cool enough to handle , peel off and discard the skin and place the flesh in a colander and allow it drain for about 10 minutes . Meanwhile , pull apart the garlic cloves . A simple squeeze at the bottom of each clove should easily render the roasted flesh . Set this aside . (You probably won't use all of the roasted garlic for this recipe so store the remainder in a small jar and drizzle olive oil over it . Try to use it up within a few days.) I prefer to mix this in a food processor but it can be done by hand too . Add the eggplant , lemon juice , tahini and about 2 or 3 tsps of the roasted garlic . Blend well . Taste test and add more garlic if desired as well as some salt and pepper . If the eggplant is a little bitter , then add a tsp of Splenda . 
8 cut up chicken pieces 8 medium potatoes , peeled and quartered salt to taste ground white pepper to taste 4 cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil 1 cup fresh lemon juice  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place chicken and potatoes in a large baking dish . Season generously with salt and white pepper . In a bowl , stir together garlic , olive oil , and lemon juice . Pour over chicken and potatoes . Cover dish with foil . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes . Remove foil , increase heat to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C) , and cook until chicken and potatoes are golden , about 30 minutes . 
1 pound chopped mixed nuts 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough 1 cup butter , melted 1 cup white sugar 1 cup water 1/2 cup honey 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 teaspoon grated lemon zest  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter a 9x13 inch baking dish . Toss together cinnamon and nuts . Unroll phyllo and cut whole stack in half to fit the dish . Cover phyllo with a damp cloth while assembling the baklava , to keep it from drying out . Place two sheets of phyllo in the bottom of the prepared dish . Brush generously with butter . Sprinkle 2 to 3 tablespoons of the nut mixture on top . Repeat layers until all ingredients are used , ending with about 6 sheets of phyllo . Using a sharp knife , cut baklava (all the way through to the bottom of the dish) into four long rows , then (nine times) diagonally to make 36 diamond shapes . Bake in preheated oven 50 minutes , until golden and crisp . While baklava is baking , combine sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil . Stir in honey , vanilla and lemon zest , reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes . Remove the baklava from the oven and immediately spoon the syrup over it . Let cool completely before serving . Store uncovered . 
1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3/4 cup plain yogurt 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons tomato paste 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 2 inch pieces 2 onions , cut into large chunks 1 large green bell pepper , cut into large chunks 1 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley  Whisk together the lemon juice , vegetable oil , plain yogurt , garlic , tomato paste , salt , oregano , pepper , allspice , cinnamon , and cardamom in a large bowl ; add the chicken and toss to coat . Transfer the chicken mixture into a large plastic bag ; refrigerate at least 4 hours . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat and lightly oil grate . Thread the chicken , onions , and pepper onto metal skewers . Cook on preheated grill until the chicken is golden and no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes each side . Sprinkle the parsley over the skewers . 
1 (16 ounce) package frozen cut green beans 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil salt to taste 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  Place the green beans into a large pot , and drizzle with olive oil . Season with salt to taste , and put the lid on the pot . Cook over medium-high heat , stirring occasionally , until beans are cooked to your desired doneness . Syrians like it cooked until the green beans are turning brownish in color . The idea is not to saute them , but to let them steam in the moisture released by the ice crystals . Add cilantro and garlic to the beans , and continue to cook just until the cilantro has started to wilt . Eat as a main course by scooping up with warm pita bread or serve as a side dish . 
1 cup bulgur 3 tomatoes , seeded and chopped 2 cucumbers , peeled and chopped 3 green onions , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/3 cup fresh mint leaves 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 cup lemon juice 2/3 cup olive oil  Place cracked wheat in bowl and cover with 2 cups boiling water . Soak for 30 minutes ; drain and squeeze out excess water . In a mixing bowl , combine the wheat , tomatoes , cucumbers , onions , garlic , parsley , mint , salt , lemon juice , and olive oil . Toss and refrigerate for at least 4 hours before serving . Toss again prior to serving . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons plain low-fat yogurt 2 tablespoons ketchup 2 tablespoons prepared mustard 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 2 teaspoons paprika 1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon curry powder (optional) 3 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces Dipping Sauce : 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 cup plain low-fat yogurt 3 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 teaspoon salt  In a medium bowl , stir together oil , yogurt , ketchup , and mustard . Season with garlic powder , paprika , allspice , black pepper , cinnamon , and curry powder . Stir in chicken pieces , coating all sides with marinade . Cover bowl , and refrigerate overnight . To make dipping sauce , mix together mayonnaise , yogurt , garlic , and salt . Cover , and refrigerate . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Transfer chicken pieces to a shallow baking dish . Bake in a preheated oven 30 minutes . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 tablespoon salt 1 cup dry red lentils , rinsed and drained 6 cups water 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 bunch collard greens - rinsed , stemmed and thinly sliced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1/3 cup lemon juice  Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat , stir in onion and salt ; cook until softened and translucent , about 4 minutes . Stir in lentils , and cook for 1 minute . Pour in water , then bring to a boil over high heat , then turn heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the lentils are tender , about 15 minutes . Meanwhile , heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add collard greens , and cook until wilted , about 10 minutes . When the lentils are tender , stir in the collard greens and season with cumin , cinnamon , and garlic ; allow to simmer 10 more minutes . Stir in lemon juice before serving . 
1 1/2 cups couscous 3 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon curry powder 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1/2 cup raisins 1 bunch cilantro , chopped 1/2 cup slivered almonds , toasted  Pour couscous into a bowl . Mix chicken stock , curry powder , salt , pepper , olive oil , and raisins in a saucepan and bring to a boil ; remove from heat . Pour the boiling liquid over the couscous . Seal the bowl with plastic wrap and allow to sit for 10 minutes . Fluff couscous with a fork . Top with cilantro and almonds . 
1 teaspoon olive oil 1 cup sliced onion 2 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs 1 tablespoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 cup red wine 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1 cup fat-free , reduced-sodium chicken broth  Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned lightly brown , about 7 minutes . Remove onion from skillet , and set aside . Increase heat to medium-high . Season one side of the chicken thighs with half of the garam masala and curry powder . Place the chicken seasoned-side down into the skillet , and season the other side with the remaining garam masala and curry powder . Continue cooking chicken until browned on both sides , about 4 minutes on each side . Pour in the red wine and red wine vinegar . Simmer for about 30 seconds , scraping up and browned bits from the pan . Stir in the prepared onion and chicken broth . Bring to a boil . Cover and reduce heat to medium-low . Simmer the chicken thighs until no longer pink in the center , about 20 minutes . 
2 pita breads 8 leaves romaine lettuce , torn into bite-size pieces 2 green onions , chopped 1 cucumber , chopped 3 tomatoes , cut into wedges 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1 clove garlic , peeled and chopped 2 tablespoons sumac powder 1/4 cup lemon juice 1/4 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Toast pitas 5 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven , until crisp . Remove from heat , and break into bite size pieces . In a large bowl , toss together toasted pita pieces , romaine lettuce , green onions , cucumber , and tomatoes . In a small bowl , mix the parsley , garlic , sumac powder , lemon juice , olive oil , salt , pepper , and mint . Pour over the pita mixture , and toss just before serving . 
For Sauce : 1 (6 ounce) container plain yogurt 1/2 cucumber - peeled , seeded , and finely chopped 1 teaspoon dried dill weed salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon mayonnaise (optional) For Falafel : 1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , drained 1 onion , chopped 1/2 cup fresh parsley 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 egg 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1 dash pepper 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 cup dry bread crumbs oil for frying 2 pita breads , cut in half (optional) 1 cup chopped tomatoes (optional)  In a small bowl combine yogurt , cucumber , dill , salt , pepper and mayonnaise and mix well . Chill for at least 30 minutes . In a large bowl mash chickpeas until thick and pasty ; don't use a blender , as the consistency will be too thin . In a blender , process onion , parsley and garlic until smooth . Stir into mashed chickpeas . In a small bowl combine egg , cumin , coriander , salt , pepper , cayenne , lemon juice and baking powder . Stir into chickpea mixture along with olive oil . Slowly add bread crumbs until mixture is not sticky but will hold together ; add more or less bread crumbs , as needed . Form 8 balls and then flatten into patties . Heat 1 inch of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Fry patties in hot oil until brown on both sides . Serve two falafels in each pita half topped with chopped tomatoes and cucumber sauce . 
1 1/2 pounds lean ground beef 1 medium onion , grated 1/2 cup finely chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 6 wooden or metal skewers  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat . If using wooden skewers , soak in water . In a large bowl , mix together the ground beef , onion , parsley , cayenne , allspice , salt and pepper until evenly blended . Divide into 6 portions , and press around one end of the skewers to form a log shape approximately 1 inch thick and 6 inches long . Grill for 10 to 15 minutes , turning occasionally , until meat is no longer pink . 
1 1/8 cups water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast  Place ingredients in the pan of the bread machine in the order recommended by the manufacturer . Select Dough cycle ; press Start . Preheat oven to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C) . Once the dough has risen , turn it out onto a lightly floured surface . Divide the dough into eight equal pieces and form into rounds . Cover the rounds with a damp cloth and let rest . Roll dough into thin flat circles , about 8 inches in diameter . Cook two at a time on preheated baking sheets or a baking stone until puffed up and golden brown , about 5 minutes . Repeat for remaining loaves . 
4 cloves garlic 1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons tahini paste 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes , drained 1/4 cup finely shredded fresh basil 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/8 teaspoon paprika (optional)  Place garlic , salt , tahini , and lemon juice into a food processor ; process until smooth . Pour in the garbanzo beans and 1/2 cup olive oil ; process until smooth again , scraping the sides of the bowl occasionally . Once smooth , add the sun-dried tomatoes , and pulse until they have been chopped to very small pieces and are incorporated into the hummus . Finally , add the basil , and pulse a few times until mixed in . Spread the hummus into a shallow serving dish , and make a few decorative grooves on top . Refrigerate at least 1 hour , then drizzle with 2 tablespoons olive oil and sprinkle with paprika before serving . 
5 unpeeled garlic cloves 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 1/2 cup tahini 1/3 cup fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place unpeeled garlic cloves in the middle of a large square of aluminum foil . Drizzle cloves with 1 tablespoon of olive oil ; wrap in foil . Roast in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes until golden brown . Remove from the oven , and allow to cool . When slightly cooled , squeeze roasted garlic out of peels . Combine roasted garlic , garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , cumin , salt , and the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in the work bowl of a food processor . Process until very creamy . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/3 cups chopped onion 1 cup thinly sliced bell peppers , any color 2 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chopped tomatoes 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon salt 1 hot chile pepper , seeded and finely chopped , or to taste 4 eggs  Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , bell peppers , and garlic ; cook and stir until the vegetables have softened and the onion has turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Combine the tomatoes , cumin , paprika , salt , and chile pepper into a bowl and mix briefly . Pour the tomato mixture into the skillet , and stir to combine . Simmer , uncovered , until the tomato juices have cooked off , about 10 minutes . Make four indentations in the tomato mixture for the eggs . Crack the eggs into the indentations . Cover the skillet and let the eggs cook until they're firm but not dry , about 5 minutes . 
1 cup dry lentils , rinsed 2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon garlic powder 3/4 cup white rice , rinsed 3/4 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3 white onions , sliced into 1/4-inch rings  Combine the lentils , 2 cups water , 1 teaspoon salt , the cumin , and garlic powder in a pot over medium heat ; bring to a simmer , reduce heat to low , and cook until the lentils begin to soften , 20 to 30 minutes . Stir the rice , 3/4 cup water , 1 teaspoon salt , and the olive oil into the lentils . Cover the pot and continue cooking until the lentils and rice are tender , about 40 minutes . Heat the cooking oil in a skillet over medium heat ; cook the onions in the oil until browned , 7 to 10 minutes . Spread the onions over the rice and lentil mixture to serve . 
6 cucumbers , diced 4 roma (plum) tomatoes , seeded and diced 5 green onions , sliced 1 red bell pepper , seeded and diced 1/3 cup chopped garlic 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/2 cup minced fresh mint leaves 1/2 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon ground black pepper  Toss the cucumbers , tomatoes , onions , bell pepper , garlic , parsley , and mint together in a bowl . Drizzle the olive oil and lemon juice over the salad and toss to coat . Season with salt and pepper to serve . 
1 cup bulgur 1 2/3 cups boiling water 1/3 cup olive oil 1/3 cup lemon juice 1 cup chopped green onions 1 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint 3 tomatoes , chopped 1 cucumber - peeled , seeded and chopped 1 teaspoon salt ground black pepper to taste  Combine bulgur and boiling water in a large bowl . Cover , and set aside to soak for 1 hour . Add oil , lemon juice , onions , parsley , mint , tomatoes , and cucumber ; toss to combine . Season to taste with salt and black pepper . Cover , and refrigerate for at least 1 hour . 
2 sprigs fresh rosemary 1 clove garlic , peeled 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 1/4 cup olive oil 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup cold water salt and pepper to taste  Strip rosemary leaves from stems , discard stems , and place leaves in the bowl of a food processor . Add garlic and pulse until finely chopped . Pour in the garbanzo beans ; process until evenly blended . With food processor running , slowly pour in the olive oil , scraping sides of the bowl as necessary . Pour in balsamic vinegar and process until evenly blended . Taste , and add more vinegar , 1 tablespoon at a time , as desired . Pour in the water and process to make a spreadable consistency . Add more water , 1 tablespoon at a time , if necessary . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Chill before serving . 
1 head garlic , minced 1 tablespoon sea salt 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1 cup vegetable oil 1 cup olive oil (not extra virgin)  Place the garlic , salt , lemon juice , vegetable oil , and olive oil in a quart-sized jar . Submerge an immersion blender in the mixture to the bottom of the jar . Mix with the blender resting on the bottom of the jar until the ingredients thicken , 1 to 2 minutes . Angle the mixer to pull ingredients from the sides of the jar and lift it toward the top to better combine . Continue blending until the mixture reaches a texture similar to mayonnaise . 
3/4 cup peeled , seeded , and shredded cucumber 2 1/4 cups plain yogurt cheesecloth 2 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon olive oil 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon fresh dill , chopped 1 red onion , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon ground sumac 1 pound ground beef 1 small sweet onion , minced 1 1/4 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 1/2 tablespoon ground coriander 1/2 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon Urfa biber 1 tablespoon butter , softened 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon kosher salt , or to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 hamburger buns  Place the grated cucumber on a heavy-duty paper towel or clean kitchen towel . Top with another towel , and pat dry ; set aside . Scoop the yogurt into a large square of fine cheesecloth , twist the ends to close , and squeeze to remove excess moisture . Transfer the strained yogurt to a bowl , and stir in 2 1/2 teaspoons of lemon juice . Gradually add 1 tablespoon olive oil , whisking constantly , until fully incorporated . Mix in the garlic , dill , and drained cucumbers ; cover and refrigerate . Combine the red onion , 1 teaspoon lemon juice , and sumac . Cover and refrigerate . Place the ground beef in a bowl and add the minced onion , red pepper flakes , coriander , cumin , Urfa biber , and butter . Mix gently with your hands until all of the ingredients are well distributed . Place bell pepper in blender and blend until it is mostly pureed . Pour off any excess liquid , and add the bell pepper and kosher salt to the meat ; mix well . Divide the meat into 4 equal portions and form into patties slightly larger than the buns , as the patties will shrink a bit . Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat , and lightly oil the grate . Brush the patties with 2 tablespoons olive oil and grill on high and direct heat about 5 minutes per side or until done to your liking . Place each burger on a bun ; top the burgers with cucumber and yogurt tzatziki and the lemon-soaked red onion and sumac mixture . 
1 cup warm water 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 tablespoon molasses 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/2 cups soy flour cooking spray cornmeal for dusting  In a bowl mix the water , yeast , molasses , and salt . Let sit 5 to 10 minutes , then gradually mix in the whole wheat flour and soy flour . Turn out onto a floured surface , and knead until smooth . Place in a large bowl lightly coated with cooking spray . Cover with a towel , and let rise in a warm place for 1 hour . Punch down the dough , and knead for 5 to 10 minutes . Divide into 6 pieces . On a lightly floured surface , flatten each piece to about 1/8 inch thick with a rolling pin . Cover with a towel , and let rise 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Warm a baking sheet in the preheating oven for about 2 minutes , then remove from heat and sprinkle with cornmeal . Arrange the dough rounds on the prepared baking sheet , and bake 6 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove from heat and cover the bread with a moist towel to soften . When cooled , slice in half and use a knife to cut pockets in the bread . 
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup mild extra-virgin olive oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon kosher salt ground black pepper to taste  In a medium bowl , whisk together the lemon juice , olive oil , garlic , salt and pepper . Stir just before serving . 
3 1/2 pounds lamb ribs 2 onions , chopped 1 cup dry white wine 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper  Place lamb in a 9x13-inch baking dish . Combine onions , white wine , soy sauce , lemon juice , honey , olive oil , garlic , cinnamon , salt , and pepper in a small bowl . Mix well and pour mixture all over lamb . Cover with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for 1 hour . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Roast lamb in the preheated oven until browned and tender , about 1 hour 10 minutes . 
3 cups dry garbanzo beans , soaked overnight 1 pinch baking soda (optional) 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 3/4 cup tahini paste 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice , or more to taste 1 large clove garlic , minced , or more to taste 1 teaspoon ground cumin salt to taste 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil , for drizzling  Rinse the garbanzo beans and and place in a pot . Fill with enough water to cover by at least 1 inch . Add baking soda , if using . Bring to a boil and then simmer over medium heat until the beans are very soft , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Drain the beans , reserving some of the water to use later . Reserve a small handful of the whole beans for a garnish . Transfer the rest to a blender or if you have a hand blender , a large bowl . Blend the beans until smooth , adding 1/2 cup of olive oil gradually . Add some of the reserved water if needed to help it blend . Add the tahini and blend in along with the lemon juice . Blend in the garlic , cumin and salt . Spread the hummus into a flat serving dish and garnish with the reserved beans and a drizzle of olive oil . 
1/4 cup bulgur 1/2 cup boiling water 1 cup chopped parsley 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint leaves 5 tomatoes , diced 1 onion , finely diced 2 teaspoons olive oil 1 lemon , juiced salt to taste  Place the bulgur in a small mixing bowl . Add the boiling water , mix and cover with a towel ; Let stand for 1 hour . Drain any excess water . Combine the parsley , mint , tomatoes , onion , olive oil , lemon juice and salt . Add the bulgur ; mix well and serve . 
1 (15 ounce) can fava beans 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 large tomato , diced 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice salt and pepper to taste ground red pepper , to taste  Pour the beans into a pot and bring to a boil . Mix them well and add onion , tomato , olive oil , cumin , parsley , lemon juice , salt , pepper , and red pepper . Bring the mixture back to a boil , then reduce the heat to medium . Let the mixture cook 5 minutes . Serve warm with grilled pita . 
2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1/2 cup (packed) chopped fresh mint 1/2 cup (packed) chopped fresh parsley 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 pint grape tomatoes , halved 1 jalapeno pepper , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup olive oil 3 tablespoons lemon juice 5 tablespoons apple cider vinegar salt and ground black pepper to taste  In a salad bowl , lightly mix together the garbanzo beans , black beans , mint , parsley , onion , and grape tomatoes . Place the jalapeno pepper , garlic , olive oil , lemon juice , and apple cider vinegar into a blender , and blend until thoroughly combined . Pour the dressing over the salad , and toss to mix ; sprinkle with salt and black pepper to serve . 
Marinade : 2 large onions , chopped 2 garlic cloves , crushed 1/2 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 pinch curry powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 pound beef flank steak , thinly sliced Tzatziki Sauce : 8 ounces sour cream 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon chopped fresh dill 1 clove garlic , crushed 6 pita bread rounds  Place the chopped onions in a large ceramic bowl and crush with the bottom of a glass until juice is rendered and onions look translucent . Stir in 2 crushed garlic cloves , 1/2 cup olive oil , 2 tablespoons lemon juice , oregano , 1 teaspoon black pepper , turmeric , curry powder , and 1 teaspoon salt . Mix well ; add the sliced beef and toss to coat . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and marinate in the refrigerator overnight . Combine the sour cream , 2 tablespoons olive oil , 1 tablespoon lemon juice , 1/2 teaspoon salt , 1/2 teaspoon black pepper , dill , and 1 crushed clove of garlic . Mix well ; cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight . Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source . Remove the meat from the marinade mixture , brushing off extra onions . Spread the slices on a baking sheet without overlapping , and salt to taste . Broil about 3 minutes per side or until browned and crispy , turning halfway through cooking . Divide the cooked meat between the pita breads , and drizzle with tzatziki sauce to serve . 
4 cloves garlic , peeled 1/4 cup vegetable oil , or as needed 1 pinch salt 1 lemon , juiced  Crush garlic in a mortar and pestle with a generous pinch of salt . Mix in oil a teaspoon at a time until the mixture will absorb no more oil . Stir in the lemon juice . serve at room temperature with Lebanese breads , hummus or Tabbouleh . 
2 cups semolina flour 1/3 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup white sugar 1 cup sweetened flaked coconut 1/4 cup butter , melted 1 cup plain yogurt 1/4 cup milk , or as needed 1/4 cup whole almonds 1 cup water 1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease an 8 inch square baking dish . In a large bowl , mix together the semolina flour , baking powder , 1 cup sugar , coconut and butter . Add the yogurt and milk ; mix until moistened but not runny or liquid . If you see that it is too dry , add more milk . Spread into a greased 8 inch square baking dish , smoothing the top as much as possible . Decorate the top with whole almonds . Bake for 40 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown . While the basboosa is baking , combine the water , 1 cup of sugar and lemon juice in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil , and cook for at least 5 minutes . When the basboosa has finished baking , pour the syrup over it as evenly as possible . Place it back in the oven for about 5 minutes , or until the syrup has been fully absorbed . Let rest for about 20 minutes before cutting into pieces and serving . 
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup fine dry bread crumbs 1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts 4 cloves garlic , mashed into a paste 3 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons pomegranate molasses 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes  In the container of a food processor or blender , combine the olive oil , bread crumbs , walnuts , garlic , lemon juice , pomegranate molasses , cumin and red pepper flakes . Process until smooth . Serve with pita triangles . 
2 cups canned garbanzo beans , drained 1/3 cup tahini 1/4 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 2 cloves garlic , halved 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 pinch paprika 1 teaspoon minced fresh parsley  Place the garbanzo beans , tahini , lemon juice , salt and garlic in a blender or food processor . Blend until smooth . Transfer mixture to a serving bowl . Drizzle olive oil over the garbanzo bean mixture . Sprinkle with paprika and parsley . 
