3 1/2 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and diced 1 head lettuce , torn into small pieces 4 green onions , sliced 4 stalks celery , sliced thin 1/2 cup walnuts , chopped 2 tablespoons sesame seeds , toasted 6 ounces Chinese noodles , heated briefly to crisp 6 tablespoons seasoned rice vinegar 4 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup peanut oil  | In a large salad bowl combine the chicken , lettuce , green onion , celery , nuts , seeds and noodles . Mix all together . Set aside . To Make Dressing : Put vinegar in a small bowl . Dissolve sugar and salt in vinegar before adding oil . Shake/Beat well . Add dressing to salad and toss to coat . Serve and enjoy ! 
3 cups bread flour 1 1/4 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil salt and pepper to taste 1 bunch green onions , finely chopped 2 teaspoons vegetable oil  | Use a fork to mix flour and boiling water in a large bowl . Knead dough into a ball . Cover bowl with plastic wrap ; let dough rest for 30 to 60 minutes . Evenly divide dough into 16 pieces . Roll each piece into a 1/4 inch thick circle . Brush each circle with oil , season with salt and pepper , and sprinkle with about 1 teaspoon of green onions . Roll up , cigar style , and pinch open ends together to form a circle . Roll each circle flat to 1/4 inch . Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a large skillet . Fry cakes until golden brown , about 2 minutes on each side . 
1 egg 1 tablespoon water 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 2 cups cooked white rice , cold 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup cooked , chopped chicken meat  | In a small bowl , beat egg with water . Melt butter in a large skillet over medium low heat . Add egg and leave flat for 1 to 2 minutes . Remove from skillet and cut into shreds . Heat oil in same skillet ; add onion and saute until soft . Then add rice , soy sauce , pepper and chicken . Stir fry together for about 5 minutes , then stir in egg . Serve hot . 
1/2 pound thinly sliced pork loin 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup rice wine 1 teaspoon white pepper 1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 teaspoon cornstarch 4 dried Chinese black mushrooms 1 (8 ounce) package dried rice vermicelli 1/4 cup vegetable oil , divided 2 eggs , beaten 1/4 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon dried small shrimp 3 carrots , cut into matchstick strips 1/2 onion , chopped 3 cups bean sprouts 4 leaves napa cabbage , thinly sliced salt to taste 3 sprigs fresh cilantro for garnish  | Place the pork into a mixing bowl and pour in the soy sauce and rice wine . Sprinkle with the white pepper , five-spice powder , and cornstarch . Mix well , then set aside to marinate . Soak the mushrooms in a bowl of cold water for 20 minutes , then pour off the water , cut off and discard the stems of the mushrooms . Slice the mushrooms thinly and reserve . Soak the rice vermicelli in a separate bowl of cold water for 10 minutes , then pour off the water and set the noodles aside . Heat 1 tablespoon of the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Pour in the eggs , and cook until firm , flipping once , to make a pancake . Remove the egg pancake , and allow to cool , then thinly slice and place into a large bowl . Heat 2 more tablespoons of the vegetable oil in the wok over high heat . Stir in the garlic and dried shrimp , and cook until the shrimp become aromatic , about 20 seconds . Next , add the pork along with the marinade , and cook until the pork is no longer pink , about 4 minutes . Stir in the carrots and onion , and cook until the carrots begin to soften , about 3 minutes . Finally , add the bean sprouts , napa cabbage , and sliced mushrooms ; cook and stir until the vegetables are tender , about 3 minutes more . Scrape the pork mixture into the bowl along with the eggs , then wipe out the wok and return it to the stove over medium-high heat . Heat the remaining vegetable oil in the wok , then stir in the drained rice vermicelli noodles . Cook and stir for a few minutes until the noodles soften , then stir in the reserved pork mixture . Scrape the mixture in to a serving bowl and garnish with cilantro to serve . 
3 cups bread flour 1 1/4 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil salt and pepper to taste 1 bunch green onions , finely chopped 2 teaspoons vegetable oil  | Use a fork to mix flour and boiling water in a large bowl . Knead dough into a ball . Cover bowl with plastic wrap ; let dough rest for 30 to 60 minutes . Evenly divide dough into 16 pieces . Roll each piece into a 1/4 inch thick circle . Brush each circle with oil , season with salt and pepper , and sprinkle with about 1 teaspoon of green onions . Roll up , cigar style , and pinch open ends together to form a circle . Roll each circle flat to 1/4 inch . Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a large skillet . Fry cakes until golden brown , about 2 minutes on each side . 
1 pound ground pork 1 egg 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) (optional) 1 teaspoon salt 2 green onions , chopped and divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 head napa cabbage , cored and cut into chunks 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth 2 cups water , or as needed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Mix the ground pork , egg , cornstarch , 2 teaspoons of sesame oil , ginger , monosodium glutamate , salt , and half of the chopped green onions together in a bowl . Use your hands to mix until the ingredients are evenly distributed . Set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . When the oil is hot , fry the napa cabbage , stirring constantly , until cabbage begins to wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour in the chicken broth , water , and soy sauce . Bring to a boil , then lower the heat to medium . Use a spoon to form the meat mixture into 1 inch balls . Drop them into the boiling soup . When the last ball has been added , cover with a lid and simmer for 10 minutes . Taste , and adjust salt before serving . Garnish with remaining green onions and a drizzle of sesame oil . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 2 tablespoons white wine 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons sesame oil , divided 2 tablespoons cornstarch , dissolved in 2 tablespoons water 1 ounce hot chile paste 1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 2 teaspoons brown sugar 4 green onions , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts 4 ounces chopped peanuts  | To Make Marinade : Combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture and mix together . Place chicken pieces in a glass dish or bowl and add marinade . Toss to coat . Cover dish and place in refrigerator for about 30 minutes . To Make Sauce : In a small bowl combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil , 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture , chili paste , vinegar and sugar . Mix together and add green onion , garlic , water chestnuts and peanuts . In a medium skillet , heat sauce slowly until aromatic . Meanwhile , remove chicken from marinade and saute in a large skillet until meat is white and juices run clear . When sauce is aromatic , add sauteed chicken to it and let simmer together until sauce thickens . 
100 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers 1 3/4 pounds ground pork 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion 4 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons sesame oil 1 egg , beaten 5 cups finely shredded Chinese cabbage  | In a large bowl , combine the pork , ginger , garlic , green onion , soy sauce , sesame oil , egg and cabbage . Stir until well mixed . Place 1 heaping teaspoon of pork filling onto each wonton skin . Moisten edges with water and fold edges over to form a triangle shape . Roll edges slightly to seal in filling . Set dumplings aside on a lightly floured surface until ready to cook . To Cook : Steam dumplings in a covered bamboo or metal steamer for about 15 to 20 minutes . Serve immediately . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon ketchup 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon sake 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh garlic 1/4 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 pound pork spareribs  | In a shallow glass dish , mix together the hoisin sauce , ketchup , honey , soy sauce , sake , rice vinegar , lemon juice , ginger , garlic and five-spice powder . Place the ribs in the dish , and turn to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours , or as long as overnight . Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Fill a broiler tray with enough water to cover the bottom . Place the grate or rack over the tray . Arrange the ribs on the grate . Place the broiler rack in the center of the oven . Cook for 40 minutes , turning and brushing with the marinade every 10 minutes . Let the marinade cook on for the final 10 minutes to make a glaze . Finish under the broiler if desired . Discard any remaining marinade . 
1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained (juice reserved) 1/4 cup cornstarch 1 3/4 cups water , divided 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup distilled white vinegar 2 drops orange food color 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 2 1/4 cups self-rising flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 egg 1 1/2 cups water 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 2 green bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces  | In a saucepan , combine 1 1/2 cups water , sugar , vinegar , reserved pineapple juice , and orange food coloring . Heat to boiling . Turn off heat . Combine 1/4 cup cornstarch and 1/4 cup water ; slowly stir into saucepan . Continue stirring until mixture thickens . Combine flour , 2 tablespoons oil , 2 tablespoons cornstarch , salt , white pepper , and egg . Add 1 1/2 cups water gradually to make a thick batter . Stir to blend thoroughly . Add chicken pieces , and stir until chicken is well coated . Heat oil in skillet or wok to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . Fry chicken pieces in hot oil 10 minutes , or until golden . Remove chicken , and drain on paper towels . When ready to serve , layer green peppers , pineapple chunks , and cooked chicken pieces on a platter . Pour hot sweet and sour sauce over top . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup warm water 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  | Mix together yeast , 1 teaspoon sugar , 1/4 cup flour , and 1/4 cup warm water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Mix in 1/2 cup warm water , flour , salt , 2 tablespoons sugar , and vegetable oil . Knead until dough surface is smooth and elastic . Roll over in a greased bowl , and let stand until triple in size , about 2 1/2 to 3 hours . Punch down dough , and spread out on a floured board . Sprinkle baking powder evenly on surface , and knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 2 parts , and place the piece you are not working with in a covered bowl . Divide each half into 12 parts . Shape each part into a ball with smooth surface up . Put each ball on a wax paper square . Let stand covered until double , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
1 cup vegetable oil 13 pounds fresh green beans , trimmed 5 tablespoons minced garlic 5 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons kosher salt 1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper 2 (8 ounce) bottles black bean sauce  | In a large wok , heat oil over medium-high heat . Stir in green beans ; cook , stirring frequently , for 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in garlic and ginger ; cook , stirring frequently , for 3 to 4 minutes . Season with salt and pepper , and then stir in black bean sauce . Continue cooking until green beans are tender . 
1 pound pork butt , cut into 1 inch cubes 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 egg white 2 green onions , chopped 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 1/2 cup cornstarch 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 stalks celery , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 medium green bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces 1 medium onion , cut into wedges white sugar to taste salt to taste 1 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup white sugar 1/3 cup apple cider vinegar 1/4 cup ketchup 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , undrained 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/4 cup water  | Place cubed pork in a medium bowl , and season with 1 teaspoon salt , 1/4 teaspoon sugar , and 1 teaspoon soy sauce . Mix in the egg white and green onions . Cover , and place in the refrigerator at least 1 hour . Heat 1 quart oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) in a large , heavy saucepan or deep fryer . Coat the pork with 1/2 cup cornstarch , and fry in the heated oil about 10 minutes , until evenly browned . Drain on paper towels . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a wok over medium heat . Stir in the celery , green bell pepper , and onion , and cook until tender . Season with salt and sugar . Remove from heat , and set aside . In a large saucepan , mix 1 cup water , 1/4 teaspoon salt , 3/4 cup sugar , apple cider vinegar , ketchup , and 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce . Bring to a boil , and stir in the cooked pork , celery mixture , and the pineapple chunks with juice . Return to boil , and mix in 2 tablespoons cornstarch and 1/4 cup water to thicken . Cook until well blended . 
Filling : 3/4 cup chicken stock , or more if needed 1 teaspoon agar-agar flakes 1 piece fresh ginger root , peeled 1 spring onion , sliced 3/4 cup warm water 9 ounces ground chicken 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons cooking wine 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper Dough : 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 2/3 cup warm water 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | Combine chicken stock and agar-agar flakes in a saucepan over low heat ; cook and stir until agar-agar is dissolved , 1 to 2 minutes . Refrigerate and chill and until set , 15 to 30 minutes . Slightly smash ginger with the blade of a broad knife to bring out flavor . Place ginger and spring onion in 3/4 cup warm water in a bowl ; rub with your fingers to extract the flavor of the ginger and onion into the water . The water will turn slightly green . Drain and let water cool . Mix chicken , soy sauce , cooking wine , sesame oil , sugar , and black pepper together in a bowl . Gradually mix in the cooled ginger-spring onion water . Mince the agar mixture and stir into chicken mixture . Cover and chill in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours . Place flour in a large bowl ; stir in 2/3 cup warm water and vegetable oil . Mix until a smooth dough forms ; cover with plastic wrap and let stand for 10 minutes . Cut dough into small pieces and roll into balls ; flatten into rounds that are slightly thicker in the center . Spoon chicken mixture into the center of each piece of dough . Draw up the sides to form a bag shape and twist to seal . Place in a bamboo steamer . Steam in a skillet filled with about 1 inch of water over high heat until chicken is no longer pink in the center , 10 to 15 minutes . 
1 (8 ounce) package firm tofu , cut into bite-sized cubes 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons chili bean paste (toban djan) 1 (3/4 inch thick) slice fresh ginger , finely chopped 1 teaspoon chile powder 1 cup water , or as needed 1 bunch garlic scapes , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 teaspoon soy sauce salt to taste 1 teaspoon water 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon ground Sichuan peppercorns , or to taste  | Bring a small pot of salted water to a boil . Add tofu ; boil for 1 to 2 minutes . Drain . Heat oil in a deep skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Cook and stir the chili bean paste until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add ginger and chile powder ; cook and stir until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Stir tofu into the skillet ; pour in enough water to cover . Bring to a boil . Stir in garlic scapes , soy sauce , and salt . Reduce heat and simmer until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . Mix 1 teaspoon water and cornstarch together in a small bowl until cornstarch is dissolved . Pour into the skillet and stir gently until sauce thickens , 3 to 5 minutes . Sprinkle ground Sichuan peppercorns on top . 
2 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon cornstarch 9 ounces pork , cut into thin strips 2 teaspoons salt , divided 3 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1/8 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 3 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons sweet bean paste 2 spring onions (white parts only) , cut into matchstick-size pieces  | Stir 2 tablespoons water and cornstarch together in a bowl . Place pork in shallow bowl and add cornstarch mixture and 1 teaspoon salt ; stir to coat and let sit for a few minutes . Mix 3 tablespoons water , sugar , soy sauce , MSG , and 1 teaspoon salt together in a bowl until sauce is smooth . Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat ; saute pork until pork is cooked through , about 5 minutes . Push pork to a side ; add sweet bean paste . Cook and stir bean paste until fragrant , about 1 minute . Pour in the sauce and stir until thickened , 2 to 3 minutes . Transfer pork mixture to a dish and top with spring onions . 
1/2 (2 pound) whole chicken 1 (3/4 inch thick) slice fresh ginger , crushed 1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup chile oil 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/4 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1/4 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorn oil 6 spring onions (white parts only) , cut into 3/4-inch pieces 1 teaspoon toasted sesame seeds , or to taste  | Bring a large pot of water to a boil ; add chicken and cook for 2 to 3 minutes . Drain and discard water . Bring a large pot of fresh water to a boil ; add chicken , ginger , and peppercorns . Add more water if needed to cover chicken completely . Cover and cook over high heat until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear , 35 to 45 minutes . Drain and discard water . Horizontally chop chicken into 3/4-inch pieces , cutting through the bone and skin . Vertically chop into 3/4-inch squares ; transfer to a bowl . Combine soy sauce , chile oil , sugar , MSG , and Sichuan peppercorn oil in a bowl to form a sauce ; pour over chicken and toss well . Garnish with spring onions and sesame seeds . 
4 dried scallops 1 pound pork spare ribs , cut into 1-inch pieces 3 lotus roots , peeled and cut into 1/3-inch slices water to cover salt to taste  | Place dried scallops in a small bowl and cover with water . Let soak until softened , 30 minutes to 1 hour . Drain and cut into small pieces . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Add pork spare ribs ; cook for 5 to 8 minutes . Drain and rinse under cold water . Combine scallops , spare ribs , and lotus roots in a pot . Add three times the volume of water ; bring to a boil . Cook at a boil for 30 minutes . Reduce heat to medium and simmer , adding more water if needed , until lotus roots are soft and water is reduced by a third , 2 to 3 hours . Stir and season with salt . 
1 pound whole sea bass - cleaned , rinsed , and patted dry salt to taste 5 spring onions , thinly sliced 1/4 cup peeled and thinly sliced ginger 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup chile oil 1 tablespoon white sugar  | Season sea bass with salt . Place 1/3 of the spring onions and ginger onto a glass or ceramic plate ; cover with sea bass . Scatter remaining spring onions and ginger over the sea bass . Bring a wide pot of water to a boil . Set a rack inside the boiling water ; place the plate of sea bass on top . Cover pot and steam until sea bass flakes easily with a fork , 8 to 10 minutes . Pour out any water that may have collected on the plate . Mix soy sauce , chile oil , and sugar together in a small bowl ; pour over the sea bass before serving . 
2 pounds pork chops water to cover 4 dried pitted dates 1 (2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled 2 bunches fresh watercress 8 fried fish balls , or to taste 1 pinch salt to taste  | Place pork chops in a stockpot and pour in enough water to cover . Bring water to a boil . Remove from heat and rinse any residue on pork chops with cold water . Return pork chops to stockpot and pour in enough cold water to take up twice the space as the pork chops . Bring water to a boil ; reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 3 hours . Place dates in a bowl and pour in enough water to cover ; soak for 5 minutes . Drain . Stir dates and ginger into the stockpot ; add watercress and fish balls and simmer for 10 minutes . Skim off any scum from the top of the soup ; season with salt . 
2 pounds beef stew meat , cut into 1-inch cubes water to cover 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , or more as needed 8 cups water , or more as needed 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 1 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup rice wine 1 bunch green onions , cut into 2-inch pieces 1/4 cup brown sugar 10 cloves garlic , peeled , or more to taste 4 small chile peppers , halved and seeded , or more to taste 2 tablespoons chile paste 1 (1 1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger , peeled and cut into 5 pieces 3 star anise pods , or more to taste 1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 4 small heads baby bok choy 1 (10 ounce) package udon noodles 1 tablespoon chopped pickled Chinese mustard greens , or to taste (optional)  | Place beef in a stockpot and pour in enough water to cover ; bring to a boil . Remove from heat and drain . Pour vegetable oil into a slow cooker ; add beef , 8 cups water , beef broth , soy sauce , rice wine , green onions , brown sugar , garlic , chile peppers , chile paste , ginger , star anise , and Chinese five-spice powder . Cook on Low for 8 to 9 hours . Transfer beef to a bowl with a slotted spoon . Strain broth into a bowl . Discard solids . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add bok choy for 30 seconds . Remove and run under cold water . Cook udon noodles in the boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite , about 4 minutes . Drain . Divide noodles among serving bowls and top with beef , baby bok choy , and broth . Top with Chinese pickled mustard greens . 
Noodles : 1 (12 ounce) package dried rice noodles boiling water to cover Sauce : 1 cup water 1 tablespoon chicken bouillon granules 1 tablespoon soy sauce Vegetables : 1 tablespoon olive oil 4 ounces Japanese white mushrooms , stemmed and sliced 4 ounces baby cabbage , shredded 4 ounces pickled Chinese mustard greens , chopped 1/4 head lettuce , shredded 1 large Japanese cucumber , sliced  | Place noodles in a bowl and pour in enough boiling water to cover ; soak until noodles are softened , about 10 minutes . Drain . Mix 1 cup water , chicken bouillon , and soy sauce in a bowl until sauce is smooth . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir mushrooms , baby cabbage , mustard greens , lettuce , and Japanese cucumber until mushrooms are fragrant and vegetables are tender , about 5 minutes . Add noodles and sauce ; cook and stir using a long wooden chopstick until sauce has nearly evaporated , about 5 minutes . 
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 spring onions , minced 4 cloves garlic , minced , divided 1 small head romaine lettuce , leaves separated 2 teaspoons oyster sauce 1 teaspoon salt  | Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat ; add green onions and 1/2 of the garlic . Cook and stir until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add romaine lettuce and oyster sauce ; cook and quickly stir until lettuce turns bright green , 1 to 2 minutes . Turn heat to medium . Mix remaining garlic and salt into lettuce mixture and stir . 
4 cups vegetable oil for frying 1 egg 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into 1/2 inch cubes 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 pinch white pepper 1 cup cornstarch 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 tablespoons chopped green onion 1 clove garlic , minced 6 dried whole red chilies 1 strip orange zest 1/2 cup white sugar 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 3 tablespoons chicken broth 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons peanut oil 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/4 cup water  | Heat 4 cups vegetable oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Beat the egg in a mixing bowl . Add the chicken cubes ; sprinkle with salt , 1 teaspoon sugar , and white pepper ; mix well . Mix in 1 cup of cornstarch a little bit at a time until the chicken cubes are well coated . In batches , carefully drop the chicken cubes into the hot oil one by one , cooking until they turns golden brown and begin to float , about 3 minutes . Remove the chicken and allow to cool as you fry the next batch . Once all of the chicken has been fried , refry the chicken , starting with the batch that was cooked first . Cook until the chicken turns deep golden brown , about 2 minutes more . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in the green onion , garlic , whole chiles , and orange zest . Cook and stir a minute or two until the garlic has turned golden and the chiles brighten . Add 1/2 cup sugar , the ginger , chicken broth , vinegar , soy sauce , sesame oil , and peanut oil ; bring to a boil and cook for 3 minutes . Dissolve 2 teaspoons of cornstarch into the water , and stir into the boiling sauce . Return to a boil and cook until the sauce thickens and is no longer cloudy from the cornstarch , about 1 minute . Stir the chicken into the boiling sauce . Reduce heat to low and cook for a few minutes until the chicken absorbs some of the sauce . 
First Dough : 1/2 cup water 2 teaspoons instant yeast 2 teaspoons white sugar 2 cups cake flour , divided Pork Filling : 2/3 cup water 3 slices fresh ginger root , peeled and minced 1 spring onion , minced 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon corn flour 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 pinch ground white pepper to taste 7 ounces Chinese barbeque pork , cut into very thin slices Second (Sweet) Dough : 1/2 cup corn flour 3/8 cup cake flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 3/8 cup white sugar 2 1/2 tablespoons cooking oil  | Combine 1/2 cup water , yeast , 2 teaspoons sugar , and 1 teaspoon cake flour in a large bowl ; let stand until top is beginning to form a layer of white foam , about 20 minutes . Add remaining cake flour (2 cups minus the 1 teaspoon) and stir gently using chopsticks until dough comes together . Knead dough until smooth . Cover with plastic wrap and let first dough stand in a warm place for 4 to 6 hours . Mix 2/3 cup water , ginger , spring onion , oyster sauce , 1 tablespoon sugar , all-purpose flour , 1 tablespoon corn flour , sesame oil , and white pepper in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; cook , stirring constantly , until thickened , about 5 minutes . Cool filling to room temperature ; refrigerate . Spoon chilled filling over pork ; mix well . Sift 1/2 cup corn flour , 3/8 cup cake flour , and baking powder together into a bowl . Add 3/8 cup sugar and cooking oil and mix well . Mix corn flour mixture into first dough , kneading until smooth . Roll dough into a ball . Cover ball with an inverted bowl and let stand for 10 minutes . Divide dough into 12 to 15 pieces and roll each into a ball . Flatten the balls into rounds . Spoon 1 to 2 tablespoons filling into the center of each round and fold round around filling and seal . It's fine if the top is a bit thick , it just helps create the top flower look . Line bamboo steamers with parchment paper and arrange buns on top . Set aside in a warm place for 5 minutes . Close lids tightly . Bring 1 1/2 to 2 quarts water to a boil in a wok or large skillet for 10 minutes . Place steamers in the wok and steam buns over medium heat until cooked through , 12 to 15 minutes . 
1/2 cup sticky rice 1 egg 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , minced 2 teaspoons soy sauce salt to taste 4 ounces ground pork 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon pork stock , or as needed 1/4 cup water , or as needed 1 teaspoon dried goji berries (wolfberries) , or to taste  | Rinse sticky rice and place in a bowl ; cover with water . Soak rice for at least 3 hours . Drain . Beat egg in a large bowl ; mix in ginger root , soy sauce , and salt . Add pork , cornstarch , and pork stock ; stir in 1 direction until combined , 5 to 6 minutes . Roll pork mixture into bite-size balls . Pour enough water into the bottom of a wok to cover by about 1 inch ; bring to a simmer . Roll pork balls in sticky rice until they are coated completely . Place 6 balls in a steamer basket . Place steamer in the wok and steam until pork is cooked through and rice is tender , about 30 minutes . Remove balls and garnish with goji berries . 
1 pound pork spare ribs , cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons rice wine , divided 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 cups vegetable oil for frying 1/3 cup white sugar 1/4 cup water 2 teaspoons Chinese black vinegar  | Combine pork ribs , soy sauce , 1 teaspoon rice wine , and salt in a large bowl . Marinate in the refrigerator for 20 minutes . Heat oil in a wok or deep saucepan over medium-high heat . Cook ribs in the hot oil until golden brown and no longer pink in the center , about 10 minutes . Bring remaining 1 teaspoon rice wine , sugar , and water to a boil in a saucepan . Stir in ribs ; reduce heat and simmer until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . Stir in black vinegar . Increase heat to high ; cook and stir until sauce thickens and coats the ribs , 1 to 2 minutes . 
5 dried red chile peppers 5 teaspoons soy sauce 1 spring onion , finely chopped 1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 teaspoons hot chile oil 1 teaspoon soft dark brown sugar 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon Chinese black vinegar 1/2 teaspoon toasted white sesame seeds 2 cucumbers - peeled , seeded , and cut into 2-inch strips  | Heat a dry skillet over medium heat . Add red chile peppers ; cook and stir until fragrant , about 5 minutes . Let cool and transfer to a spice grinder ; pulse until coarsely ground . Mix ground chile peppers , soy sauce , spring onion , sesame oil , hot chile oil , brown sugar , garlic , black vinegar , and sesame seeds together in a bowl to make dressing . Place cucumbers on a serving plate . Pour dressing on top and toss well . Let sit before serving , about 3 minutes . 
3 1/2 tablespoons cold water 1 tablespoon powdered gelatin 1/2 cup water 2 tablespoons Chinese rock sugar 1 (11 ounce) can lychees , drained and diced , syrup reserved 1 cup whole milk 1 1/2 tablespoons whole milk  | Combine 3 1/2 tablespoons cold water and gelatin in a small microwave-safe bowl ; let stand until gelatin starts to dissolve , about 5 minutes . Warm the water in the microwave to dissolve the gelatin completely , 5 to 10 seconds . Bring 1/2 cup water to a boil in a small pot . Stir in rock sugar until dissolved . Stir in lychees and 1 1/4 cup reserved syrup . Combine gelatin mixture , lychee mixture , and 1 cup plus 1 1/2 tablespoons milk in a bowl . Pour into a container and chill until set , about 4 hours . 
2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons Shaoxing cooking wine 1 tablespoon hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon pureed kiwi 1 tablespoon Chinese dark soy sauce 1 tablespoon Thai chile sauce 2 cloves garlic , grated 2 teaspoons oyster sauce 1/2 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 1/2 pounds pork belly , skin removed  | Mix honey , cooking wine , hoisin sauce , kiwi , dark soy sauce , chile sauce , garlic , oyster sauce , and five-spice powder together in a large resealable plastic bag . Add pork belly . Seal bag , pressing out as much air as possible . Place bag on a plate and marinate pork belly in the refrigerator , flipping occasionally , for at least 2 days . Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C) with a rack in the upper third of the oven . Set a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet . Place pork belly on the wire rack , reserving marinade . Bake pork belly in the preheated oven until the internal temperature reaches 160 degrees F (71 degrees C) , about 1 hour . Remove pork belly from the oven ; baste with reserved marinade . Move oven rack to the top position and preheat the oven's broiler . Broil pork until it is dark and glossy and the edges start to blacken , about 5 minutes . Flip and baste on the second side . Continue broiling until second side darkens and starts to blacken , about 5 minutes more . Slice with a sharp knife . 
3 quarts water 1 1/2 cups medium-grain rice 5 ounces white fish , cut into small chunks 1 (3 inch) piece fresh ginger root , thinly sliced 1 spring onion , sliced 2 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste  | Combine water and rice in a large pot over high heat . Bring to a boil ; simmer for 5 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until rice is tender , about 30 minutes . Combine fish , ginger , spring onion , chicken bouillon granules , and pepper in a bowl . Let marinate for 15 minutes . Stir fish mixture into the pot . Simmer gently until rice is very soft and fish is falling apart , about 20 minutes . Season with parsley and salt . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil , divided 1 pinch salt 1 pinch white sugar 1 pound choy sum 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 3 tablespoons water , divided , or as needed 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 1 teaspoon Shaoxing wine 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 1/8 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1 teaspoon cornstarch , or more to taste  | Bring a large saucepan of water , 1 teaspoon vegetable oil , 1 pinch salt , and 1 pinch sugar to a boil . Add choy sum and cook for 30 seconds . Drain , pressing gently to squeeze out excess water . Place choy sum on a serving dish . Heat remaining 2 teaspoons oil in a wok or skillet over high heat . Cook and stir garlic until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add 2 tablespoons water , oyster sauce , Shaoxing wine , soy sauce , 1/4 teaspoon sugar , and monosodium glutamate ; bring to a boil . Mix remaining 1 tablespoon water and cornstarch together in a small bowl . Pour into the wok ; cook and stir until sauce thickens , about 1 minute . Pour sauce over the choy sum . 
11 ounces skin-on , boneless pork belly 1 (3/4 inch thick) slice fresh ginger , lightly smashed 1/4 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns 1 1/2 tablespoons chile bean sauce (toban djan) 2 teaspoons sweet bean paste 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 green bell pepper , seeded and chopped into 3/4-inch pieces 1/4 teaspoon salt  | Place pork belly into a pot and cover with water . Add ginger and Sichuan peppercorns . Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat ; reduce heat to medium-low . Cover and cook until some of the fat has rendered out , about 20 minutes . Remove the pork from the pot and cool to room temperature , about 15 minutes . Drain . Cut the pork into thin slices , about 1/8 inch thick . Return pork slices to pot . Stir in chile bean paste , sweet bean paste , and sugar . Cover and cook over medium heat until the pork is tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Heat 1/2 teaspoon oil in a wok over medium heat . Cook and stir green bell pepper and salt until starting to soften , 3 to 5 minutes . Transfer to a dish . Heat remaining 2 1/2 tablespoons oil in a wok over medium-high heat . Cook and stir pork until pieces begin to shrink and brown , 3 to 5 minutes . Return green bell pepper to the wok . Cook and stir until fragrant , about 2 minutes . 
1 3/4 ounces dried shiitake mushrooms 1 ounce dried cloud ear mushrooms 1/2 (12 ounce) package silken tofu , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1 (8 ounce) can bamboo shoots , cut into thin matchstick-size pieces 2 teaspoons vinegar 1 teaspoon ground white pepper 10 fluid ounces chicken stock 2 ounces cooked ham , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon Shaoxing cooking wine salt to taste 2 teaspoons corn flour 2 teaspoons water 2 eggs , beaten 1 teaspoon sesame oil  | Place shiitake mushrooms and cloud ear mushrooms in a bowl of water ; soak until softened , about 30 minutes . Drain and finely chop the mushrooms . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add tofu and cook for 1 minute . Remove using a slotted spoon and place in a bowl . Bring water back to a boil and add bamboo shoots ; cook for 1 minute . Drain and set bamboo shoots aside . Mix vinegar and white pepper together in a bowl . Bring chicken stock to a boil in a large saucepan . Add bamboo shoots , mushrooms , and ham ; return to a boil . Add tofu , soy sauce , Shaoxing wine , and salt ; bring back to a boil . Mix corn flour and water together in a bowl until dissolved ; stir into chicken stock mixture until soup starts to thicken . Drizzle beaten eggs into soup , stirring gently to form cooked egg clumps , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir vinegar-pepper mixture into soup and drizzle in sesame oil . 
1/3 cup oyster sauce 2 teaspoons Asian (toasted) sesame oil 1/3 cup sherry 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 3/4 pound beef round steak , cut into 1/8-inch thick strips 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , plus more if needed 1 thin slice of fresh ginger root 1 clove garlic , peeled and smashed 1 pound broccoli , cut into florets  | Whisk together the oyster sauce , sesame oil , sherry , soy sauce , sugar , and cornstarch in a bowl , and stir until the sugar has dissolved . Place the steak pieces into a shallow bowl , pour the oyster sauce mixture over the meat , stir to coat well , and marinate for at least 30 minutes in refrigerator . Heat vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and stir in the ginger and garlic . Let them sizzle in the hot oil for about 1 minute to flavor the oil , then remove and discard . Stir in the broccoli , and toss and stir in the hot oil until bright green and almost tender , 5 to 7 minutes . Remove the broccoli from the wok , and set aside . Pour a little more oil into the wok , if needed , and stir and toss the beef with the marinade until the sauce forms a glaze on the beef , and the meat is no longer pink , about 5 minutes . Return the cooked broccoli to the wok , and stir until the meat and broccoli are heated through , about 3 minutes . 
1 (16 ounce) package soft tofu , cut into 1/3-inch cubes 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water , or as needed 6 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 spring onions , roughly chopped 1 (3/4 inch thick) slice fresh ginger , chopped 2 teaspoons Sichuan peppercorns 1 clove garlic , minced 5 ounces ground pork 1 tablespoon doubanjiang (spicy broad bean paste) 2 teaspoons rice wine 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste  | Place tofu in a bowl and cover with boiling water . Let sit for 1 minute ; drain . Mix water and cornstarch together in a bowl to make a runny paste . Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir spring onions , ginger , peppercorns , and garlic until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir in ground pork , doubanjiang paste , rice wine , and soy sauce ; cook , stirring frequently , until pork is browned , about 5 minutes . Stir drained tofu into the wok or skillet . Cook and stir until coated with sauce , about 2 minutes . Season with salt . Pour in cornstarch paste and mix well until sauce thickens , about 1 minute . 
8 cups all-purpose flour 2 1/2 cups water 1/4 cup vegetable oil  | Place flour in a large bowl and gradually mix in water . Mix until dough comes together ; knead until smooth , 15 to 20 minutes . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 15 minutes . Knead dough again for 2 minutes ; cover and let rest for 15 minutes . Knead dough one more time for 2 minutes . Divide into 4 equal pieces . Roll each piece into a 1/3-inch-thick sheet . Brush both sides of each sheet with oil . Stack sheet together ; cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 10 to 15 minutes . Fill a large saucepan with water and bring to the boil . Place one sheet of dough on a cutting board and slice into 1/8-inch-wide strips . Take one end of a strip in each hand and stretch it until it is 33 inches long . Fold it in thirds and stretch again to the same length ; shake and slap against the counter several times to lengthen it to 6 1/2 feet . Drop it into the boiling water . Add 2 to 3 more strips of noodles to the boiling water ; cook until tender , 5 to 10 minutes . Transfer drained noodles to a serving bowl . Repeat with remaining sheets of dough . 
1 (2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , at room temperature 1 cup whole milk 2 1/2 teaspoons white sugar , or more to taste  | Peel and grate ginger . Squeeze grated ginger pieces to release juice ; measure 2 teaspoons ginger juice and transfer to a bowl . Place milk in a saucepan ; heat until temperature reaches 160 degrees F to 170 degrees F (71 degrees C to 77 degrees C) , about 5 minutes . Add sugar and stir until dissolved ; pour into the bowl with ginger juice . Stir mixture immediately and cover with a small plate . Cover the covered bowl with a clean towel ; let sit for at least 7 minutes . 
1 pound pork neck bones 10 cups water 2 large potatoes , cut into chunks 2 large tomatoes , quartered 1 onion , quartered 1 large carrot , sliced 1 teaspoon white sugar salt to taste  | Place pork neck bones into a large pot ; cover with water . Bring to a boil and skim scum off the surface with a slotted spoon . Drain . Return bones to the pot . Add 10 cups water , potatoes , tomatoes , onion , and carrot . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low and simmer soup until flavors combine , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Season with sugar and salt . 
3 cloves garlic , minced 1 pinch kosher salt 1 tablespoon dark soy sauce 2 teaspoons red chile oil 1 teaspoon Szechuan peppercorn oil 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 1 cup soybean sprouts 1 cup Chinese noodles (La mian) 1 teaspoon vegetable oil  | Combine garlic and kosher salt together in a small bowl or mortar . Grind the garlic mixture with a wide spoon or pestle until paste is formed . Combine garlic paste , soy sauce , red chile oil , peppercorn oil , rice vinegar , and sesame oil in a small bowl ; stir until sauce is well mixed . Fill a bowl with cold water . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; stir in bean sprouts . Cook and stir until softened slightly , about 2 minutes ; drain . Submerge bean sprouts in the cold water until cool . Transfer to a serving bowl . Bring water to a boil in a pot ; stir in noodles . Cook and stir until noodles are softened , about 3 minutes ; drain . Submerge noodles in the cold water until cool . Transfer noodles to a bowl ; mix in vegetable oil . Place noodles on top of the bean sprouts . Pour sauce onto noodles ; mix until thoroughly combined . 
2 teaspoons salt , divided 1 whole chicken 5 cloves garlic , crushed 20 slices fresh ginger , divided 2 spring onions , cut into 2-inch pieces 3 tablespoons sesame oil , divided 2 3/4 cups white rice 2 pandan leaves  | Rub about 1 teaspoon salt all over chicken . Fill a large pot with water ; add garlic , 15 ginger slices , spring onions , and 1 tablespoon sesame oil . Bring liquid to a boil . Carefully lower chicken into pot . Return liquid to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer over low heat until chicken is fully cooked , about 30 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove chicken from pot and transfer to a bowl of ice water , reserving chicken broth . Combine 3 cups chicken broth , rice , 2 tablespoons sesame oil , pandan leaves , and 1 teaspoon salt in a rice cooker ; cook according to manufacturer's instructions until rice is tender . Serve rice alongside chicken . 
1 (3 pound) whole chicken salt to taste water to cover 1 onion , halved (skin on) 8 cloves garlic , peeled 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger , sliced salt and ground white pepper to taste Rice : 3 cups long-grain white rice 5 cloves garlic , sliced 1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger , sliced 2 teaspoons oil 5 pandan leaves , knotted Dipping Sauces : 3 fresh red chile peppers , halved and seeded 1 lime , juiced , or as needed 4 cloves garlic , peeled 1 slice fresh ginger Garnish : 10 leaves lettuce , or as desired 1 cucumber , peeled and sliced 1 tomato , sliced 1 tablespoon light soy sauce 1 teaspoon sesame oil  | Remove fat from the chicken and reserve it for later use . Season chicken , inside and out , with salt . Bring a large pot of water to a boil ; add chicken , onion , 8 garlic cloves , sliced 1-inch piece ginger , salt , and white pepper . Bring liquid back to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer until chicken is fully cooked , 20 to 25 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Carefully remove chicken and plunge into a large bowl of ice water until cooled . Remove chicken , dry , and cut chicken into bite-size pieces . Strain chicken broth and reserve liquid . Wash and drain rice . Heat reserved chicken fat in a skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir 5 sliced garlic cloves and sliced 1/2-inch piece ginger until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add rice and oil ; cook and stir until rice is coated in oil . Pour in enough reserved chicken broth to cook rice , about 6 cups . Add pandan leaves . Cover skillet and cook rice until tender and broth is absorbed , 20 to 30 minutes . Pound red chile peppers using a mortar and pestle , adding a small amount of salt , until peppers transform into a fine paste . Stir enough lime juice into paste to make smooth ; transfer to a serving dish . Pound 4 garlic cloves and 1 slice ginger using a mortar and pestle until paste is formed ; transfer to a separate serving dish . Place lettuce leaves on a serving plate and arrange cucumber slices and tomatoes around dish . Place the chicken pieces in the center . Mix soy sauce and sesame oil together in a bowl ; pour over chicken . Serve a bowl of reserved chicken broth on the side with a bowl of rice and the 2 dipping sauces . 
2 small dried cloud ear mushrooms 1 1/2 cups water 4 ounces pork fillet , thinly sliced 4 ounces canned bamboo shoots , drained and chopped 2 tablespoons white sugar 2 tablespoons sake (Japanese rice wine) 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons black rice vinegar 1 teaspoon chile paste 3 eggs 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Place mushrooms in a small bowl and cover with water . Let soak until softened , about 15 minutes . Drain and cut into bite-size pieces . Bring 1 1/2 cup water to a boil in a pot . Add pork and bamboo shots . Cook , skimming off any fat that rises to the top , until pork is tender , 5 to 10 minutes . Mix sugar , sake , soy sauce , black rice vinegar , and chile paste together in a small bowl . Stir into the pot . Reduce heat to low and simmer soup , covered , about 10 minutes . Stir mushroom pieces into the soup . Crack in eggs and cook , covered , until whites are firm and the yolks have thickened but are not hard , 2 1/2 to 3 minutes . Drizzle sesame oil over soup before serving . 
For the Chicken : 1 whole chicken 1 stalk spring onion (optional) 3 cloves garlic , crushed , or to taste 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root (optional) water to cover salt to taste For the Soy Sauce : 5 tablespoons light soy sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar , or to taste 1 tablespoon garlic oil (optional) 1 teaspoon sesame oil For the Rice : 3 cups uncooked rice , or more to taste 3 cloves garlic , minced , or to taste 1 (1 inch) piece ginger , crushed salt to taste For the Garlic Chile Dip : 5 red chile peppers , seeded and chopped 2 limes , juiced 3 cloves garlic 1 (1/2 inch) piece ginger 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 pinch white sugar , or to taste Ginger Dip : 2 limes , juiced 3 cloves garlic 1 (1 inch) piece young ginger 1/8 teaspoon salt  | Trim chicken of all excess fat , reserving fat . Place chicken , spring onion , 3 cloves crushed garlic , and one 1-inch piece ginger in a large pot . Pour in enough water to cover . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and simmer , skimming any scum off the surface , until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone , reads 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) , about 1 hour . Remove chicken from the pot , reserving broth . Rub chicken with salt . Chop into pieces and arrange on a serving plate . Combine soy sauce , 3 tablespoons reserved chicken broth , 1 1/2 tablespoon sugar , garlic oil , and sesame oil in a small bowl . Drizzle over chicken pieces . Melt reserved chicken fat in a large pot over medium heat . Add rice , 3 cloves minced garlic , crushed 1-inch piece ginger , and salt ; cook and stir until rice is glossy and fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour enough reserved chicken broth into the pot to cover rice by half an inch . Cover ; bring to a boil . Cook until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Let rice sit , covered , for 5 minutes . Fluff with a fork . Combine red chile peppers , juice of 2 limes , 2 tablespoons reserved chicken broth , 3 cloves garlic , one 1/2-inch piece ginger , 1/4 teaspoon salt , and 1 pinch sugar in a blender ; blend until garlic chile dip is smooth . Combine juice of 2 limes , 2 tablespoons reserved chicken broth , 3 cloves garlic , one 1-inch piece ginger , and 1/8 teaspoon salt in a blender ; blend until ginger dip is smooth . Serve garlic chile and ginger dips alongside chicken and rice . 
1 pound pork belly , sliced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (3 inch) cinnamon stick 3 whole star anise 1/4 cup light soy sauce 1/4 cup Shaoxing rice wine 3 tablespoons dark soy sauce 3 tablespoons white sugar , or to taste 10 cloves garlic , peeled 1/4 cup water , or as needed  | Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add pork belly . Cook until pork belly softens , about 5 minutes . Drain and cool pork until easily handled , 5 to 10 minutes . Cut into 2-inch chunks . Heat vegetable oil in a large pot over medium-low heat . Add cinnamon stick and star anise ; fry until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Stir in pork belly , light soy sauce , Shaoxing wine , dark soy sauce , sugar , and garlic . Reduce heat to very low and simmer , stirring occasionally and adding water if sauce reduces too quickly , until pork is tender , about 50 minutes . Increase heat slightly and continue simmering until sauce reduces to a sticky consistency , about 10 minutes . Remove cinnamon stick and star anise ; discard . 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil (optional) 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 (8 ounce) package dried rice noodles 1 head iceberg lettuce - rinsed , dried , and chopped 4 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and shredded 3 green onions , chopped 1 tablespoon sesame seeds , toasted  | Prepare the dressing 30 minutes ahead of time by combining the brown sugar , soy sauce , sesame oil , salad oil , and rice vinegar in a salad dressing carafe . To prepare the Chinese rice noodles , heat a skillet with a few tablespoons of oil and break off a little bit of the noodles and add them to the skillet and fry them . They will puff up in the skillet , so only add a few at a time . As they begin to puff up , remove and drain them on paper towels . Be sure to cook long enough as the under cooked noodles will be like eating needles . Once cooked , add them to the salad mixture . In a large bowl combine the iceberg lettuce , cooked and shredded chicken , green onions and toasted sesame seeds . Let chill about 10 minutes , and just before serving add the cooked rice noodles . Serve in salad bowls and offer the dressing in a pourable container so your family can add as much dressing as they want . You can also pour the dressing over the top of the salad , toss , and serve immediately . 
1 1/2 pounds pork belly , cut into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup vegetable oil 3 tablespoons brown sugar 1/4 cup dark soy sauce 1/4 cup Shaoxing rice wine 1/4 cup light soy sauce 4 scallions , halved 4 slices fresh ginger 4 star anise pods water to cover 1/2 (8 ounce) package vegetarian chicken substitute , diced (optional) 6 hard-boiled eggs , peeled (optional)  | Fill a large pot with water and bring to a boil . Add pork belly ; cook until starting to soften , about 5 minutes . Drain . Heat vegetable oil and brown sugar in a wok or large skillet over medium heat until sugar is melted . Add pork ; cook until browned on all sides , about 2 minutes . Add dark soy sauce ; cook and stir until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . Transfer pork mixture to a slow cooker . Add rice wine , light soy sauce , scallions , ginger , and star anise . Pour in enough water to just cover the pork . Cook on Low until pork is tender , about 6 hours . Add diced chicken substitute , hard-boiled eggs , and more water to cover . Cook on Low until eggs absorb cooking liquid , rotating halfway through , about 1 hour more . 
6 leaves stem lettuce (celtuce) , cut into 1/2-inch pieces 1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons water 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 pound lean pork , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1 teaspoon rice wine (sake) 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons chicken stock 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon Chinese black vinegar 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 3 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 tablespoon finely chopped pickled red chile peppers 2 teaspoons chili bean sauce ((toban djan) , such as Lee Kum Kee) 3 spring onions , diced 2 cloves garlic , sliced 1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger , sliced  | Combine stem lettuce and pinch of salt in another bowl . Combine water and cornstarch in a small bowl ; stir into a smooth paste . Transfer half of the cornstarch paste into a larger bowl . Add pork , rice wine , and 1/4 teaspoon salt . Mix well and let marinate , about 5 minutes . Whisk remaining cornstarch paste , chicken stock , soy sauce , black vinegar , and sugar in another bowl to make sauce . Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Add pork with marinade ; cook and stir until browned , 3 to 4 minutes . Stir in pickled chile peppers and chili bean sauce ; cook until oil turns red , about 1 minute . Add spring onions , garlic , and ginger ; cook and stir until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir in lettuce ; saute until tender , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour in sauce and toss until thickened , about 3 minutes . 
Marinade : 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , sliced 1 cup bean sprouts 1/4 cup water Sauce : 2 teaspoons oyster sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 tablespoons black bean sauce with garlic 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 onion , finely sliced 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 bell pepper , chopped 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon water  | Mix 1 tablespoon cornstarch with 1 tablespoon water together in a bowl . Stir in soy sauce , sugar , and 1 teaspoon salt . Add chicken ; toss to combine . Let stand to marinate , about 20 minutes . Bring water to a boil in a saucepan . Add bean sprouts ; cook just until blanched , about 30 seconds ; drain . Combine 1/4 cup water , oyster sauce , and sugar together in a small bowl . Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over high heat . Add black bean sauce and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Add onion and 1/2 teaspoon salt ; cook and stir until soft , 3 to 4 minutes . Add marinated chicken ; stir-fry until opaque and cooked through , 3 to 4 minutes . Stir in oyster sauce mixture ; cook until heated through , 1 to 2 minutes . Cover and simmer until flavors blend , about 3 minutes . Stir in bell pepper ; cover and cook until softened , 1 to 2 minutes . Dissolve 2 teaspoons cornstarch in 1 tablespoon water . Stir in bean sprouts and cornstarch mixture ; cook until sauce is thickened , 2 to 3 minutes more . 
1 (2 pound) whole chicken 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon cold water 6 tablespoons peanut oil 1 1/2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger 2 teaspoons finely chopped dried chile peppers 3 tablespoons vinegar 1 1/2 tablespoons rice wine 20 Szechuan peppercorns , crushed salt to taste 2 spring onions , chopped , or more to taste 1/8 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Place chicken in a stockpot with water to cover ; bring to a boil and cook until juices run clear , at least 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove chicken ; set aside to cool . Reserve 1/2 cup of the cooking liquid . Remove chicken meat from bone ; cut meat into 1/2-inch by 2-inch strips . Mix cornstarch and cold water together in a small bowl . Toss meat in 1/2 of the cornstarch mixture . Heat peanut oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Add chicken mixture , ginger , and chiles ; cook and stir until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Add reserved cooking liquid , vinegar , rice wine , peppercorns , and salt . Return to boil ; cook and stir until mixture is almost dry , about 3 minutes . Stir in spring onions , monosodium glutamate , and remaining cornstarch mixture ; cook until sauce is thickened , 2 to 3 minutes more . Drizzle with sesame oil . 
3 tablespoons shrimp paste 2 tablespoons fish sauce 2 tablespoons black soy sauce 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 1/2 pounds pork spareribs , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon peanut oil (groundnut oil) 1 tablespoon water  | Mix shrimp paste , fish sauce , black soy sauce , and sugar together in a bowl . Add spareribs , stir to coat , and marinate for 20 minutes . Mix cornstarch , peanut oil , and water together in a separate bowl ; stir into spareribs and marinate , 5 to 7 minutes more . Remove spareribs from marinade and discard marinade . Place a steamer insert into a saucepan and fill with water to just below the bottom of the steamer . Bring water to a boil . Add spareribs , cover , and steam until cooked through , about 15 minutes . 
2 tablespoons chopped dried shrimp Marinade : 1 tablespoon cornstarch , or more as needed 1 tablespoon water 1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons light soy sauce 1 teaspoon salt 12 ounces ground pork 1 teaspoon peanut oil (groundnut oil) salt as needed 2 bitter melon , cut into thick rings and cores removed cornstarch as needed 1 tablespoon peanut oil (groundnut oil) Sauce : 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon peanut oil (groundnut oil) 3 tablespoons black bean-garlic sauce 1 tablespoon chopped red pepper 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water  | Place shrimp in a bowl and pour in enough water to cover ; set aside until shrimp are rehydrated , about 10 minutes . Drain . Mix 1 tablespoon cornstarch and 1 tablespoon water together in a bowl until a smooth paste forms . Mix sugar , soy sauce , and 1 teaspoon salt into cornstarch paste until marinade is well combined . Stir pork into marinade moving the spoon in one direction . Heat 1 tablespoon peanut oil in a large skillet over high heat ; fry shrimp until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Add shrimp to pork mixture , stirring in 1 direction until it reaches a paste-like consistency . Sprinkle salt over bitter melon and let sit for 5 minutes . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add bitter melon and cook for 3 minutes . Drain well . Stuff each bitter melon slice with pork mixture and sprinkle cornstarch evenly over each . Heat peanut oil in a large skillet over high heat . Reduce heat to medium and fry stuffed bitter melon until brown , 3 to 5 minutes per side . Transfer bitter melon to a serving plate . Mix 1/2 cup water , oyster sauce , and 1 teaspoon sugar together in a bowl until oyster sauce mixture is smooth . Heat 1 tablespoon peanut oil in the same skillet over high heat . Cook and stir black bean-garlic sauce , red pepper , and garlic until fragrant , 3 to 4 minutes . Add oyster sauce mixture and stir until heated through , 1 to 2 minutes . Reduce heat to medium ; add stuffed bitter melons and simmer , 5 to 6 minutes . Mix 1 tablespoon cornstarch and 1 tablespoon water together in a small bowl until a smooth paste forms ; stir into skillet until sauce is thickened , 1 to 2 minutes . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 bone-in chicken thighs salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/2 cup chopped scallions 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 6 cups water 1 cup short-grain brown rice 2 cups thinly sliced cabbage 1 cup snow peas 1 cup bean sprouts 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1/2 cup chopped cilantro leaves  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat . Place chicken in hot oil , season with salt and ground black pepper and cook until well-browned , about 5 minutes per side . Remove chicken and set aside . Add scallions , ginger , garlic , and jalapeno pepper to the pot ; cook until soft , about 2 minutes . Pour water and rice into pot ; bring to a boil , then lower heat to simmer . Cover the pot partially and cook for about 1 hour , stirring occasionally to prevent rice from sticking to the bottom . Stir chicken into soup and cover partially . Continue to cook until the soup is creamy with a porridge-like consistency , stirring occasionally , about 1 hour . Remove chicken , pull meat from bones , and return meat to the pot . Stir in cabbage , snow peas , bean sprouts , soy sauce , and sesame oil ; cook until vegetables are just tender , about 5 minutes . Garnish jook with cilantro . 
1 teaspoon sesame oil 2 teaspoons doubanjiang (soy bean paste) 1 tablespoon minced shallots 1 clove garlic , pressed 1 1/2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger 6 ounces ground pork 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons tahini (sesame seed paste) 1 tablespoon sake 1 tablespoon miso paste 1 teaspoon tianmianjiang (sweet bean paste) 4 cups chicken stock 2 teaspoons rice vinegar 1 teaspoon rayu (chile oil) 1/2 cup fresh spinach , or to taste (optional) 2 cups ramen noodles , or to taste 3 green onions , thinly sliced 1 red Thai chile pepper , sliced  | Heat sesame oil in a skillet over medium heat ; add doubanjiang . Cook and stir shallots , garlic , and ginger until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add ground pork ; cook and stir until browned , about 3 minutes . Mix soy sauce , tahini , sake , miso paste , and tianmianjiang into pork mixture until evenly combined . Add chicken stock ; bring to a boil . Mix rice vinegar and rayu into pork mixture ; add spinach . Simmer soup over low heat for 10 minutes . Put noodles in a bowl of hot water to separate ; drain . Mix noodles into soup and garnish with green onions and Thai chile peppers . 
1/4 cup dried scallops 3 dried black mushrooms 1 1/2 cups uncooked short-grain white rice 1/2 leftover turkey carcass , broken into pieces 9 cups water Toppings : 1 bunch fresh cilantro , chopped 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1/4 cup thinly sliced fresh ginger 1/4 cup raw peanuts 2 tablespoons dried red onion 8 dashes sesame oil ground white pepper to taste  | Place dried scallops and dried mushrooms in a bowl ; pour in hot water to cover and let stand to rehydrate , about 10 minutes . Rinse and drain rice ; set aside . Separate any meat from bones of turkey carcass ; set aside . Place bones and 9 cups hot water in a large stockpot and bring to a boil . Drain mushrooms and scallops ; squeeze out any excess water . Break scallops into smaller pieces ; slice mushrooms thinly . Stir scallops , mushrooms , rice , and turkey meat into the stockpot ; reduce heat to allow congee to simmer , partially covered , stirring occasionally for a smooth congee , until rice is tender and congee is thick , about 2 hours . If you like a thinner congee , stir in hot water a few tablespoons at a time . Ladle congee into individual bowls ; top each bowl with cilantro , green onions , ginger , peanuts , red onion , sesame oil , and white pepper as desired . 
Marinade : 2 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon rice wine vinegar 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half , thinly sliced Seasonings : 1/2 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons oyster sauce 1 teaspoon rice wine vinegar 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup canola oil , divided 1 pound chow mein noodles 1 stalk celery , thinly sliced on the diagonal 1 carrot , cut into matchstick-size pieces 1/4 cup bean sprouts 1/4 cup thinly sliced onion 1 green onion , thinly sliced  | Whisk water , 1 teaspoon rice wine vinegar , 1 teaspoon soy sauce , cornstarch , sesame oil , and black pepper together in a bowl until marinade is smooth . Add chicken and marinate , about 15 minutes . Stir chicken broth , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , oyster sauce , 1 teaspoon rice wine vinegar , and sugar together in a bowl until seasoning mixture is well combined . Heat 3 tablespoons canola oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir noodles until golden brown and crisp , about 1 minute . Transfer noodles to a platter . Pour the remaining 1 tablespoon into skillet with the oil ; cook and stir chicken over high heat until no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes . Add seasoning mixture , celery , carrot , bean sprouts , onion , and green onion ; cook and stir until sauce thickens , about 30 seconds . Pour chicken mixture over noodles . 
1/4 cup soy sauce 4 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons honey 3 slices fresh ginger root 2 cloves garlic , crushed 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | In a small microwave-safe bowl , combine the soy sauce , oil , honey , ginger root , and garlic . Heat in microwave on medium for 1 minute , then stir . Heat again for 30 seconds , watching closely to prevent boiling . Place chicken breasts in a shallow dish . Pour soy sauce mixture over , and set aside to marinate for 15 minutes . Preheat a grill for medium-high heat . Drain marinade from chicken into a small saucepan . Bring to a boil , and simmer over medium heat for 5 minutes . Set aside for basting . Lightly oil the grill grate . Cook chicken on the prepared grill 6 to 8 minutes per side , or until juices run clear . Baste frequently with remaining marinade . Chicken will turn a beautiful golden brown . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil , or more as needed , divided 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 ounce fresh ginger , minced 1 pound pork tenderloin , sliced into thin strips , or to taste 3 hot long green chile peppers , sliced into thin strips , or more to taste salt to taste 2 teaspoons soy sauce , or to taste  | Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat until smoking ; saute garlic and ginger until fragrant , 30 seconds to 1 minute . Add pork to wok ; cook and stir until cooked through , 5 to 7 minutes . Transfer pork to a plate . Pour remaining 2 tablespoons oil into the same wok over medium-high heat ; saute chile peppers until well-coated with oil and fragrant , about 2 minutes . Add pork to chile peppers and generously season with salt . Cook and stir mixture until peppers are tender , 5 to 7 minutes more . Mix enough soy sauce into pork mixture to add color and taste for desired saltiness . 
1/4 cup dried small red beans (adzuki beans) water to cover 1/4 cup barley 1/2 cup glutinous sweet rice 1/4 cup dried mung bean 1/4 cup oats 1/4 cup millet 1/4 cup dried small pearl tapioca 1/2 cup brown sugar , or more to taste 1/4 cup raisins  | Place red beans into a large container and cover with several inches of cool water ; let stand 3 hours to overnight . Drain and rinse . Combine red beans and barley in a pot ; add enough water to fill 1/2 the pot . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , cover pot , and simmer until beans and barley are tender , about 1 hour . Mix rice into bean-barley mixture ; add more water if it has all been absorbed . Cook rice mixture for 20 minutes . Add mung beans ; cook for 20 minutes . Mix oats , millet , and tapioca into rice mixture ; cook , stirring every 5 minutes , until all the grains are softened , about 20 minutes . Add more water to reach desired thickness of porridge . Stir brown sugar and raisins into porridge ; cook for 5 minutes more . Remove pot from heat , stirring occasionally to prevent sticking . Serve hot or chilled . 
3 tablespoons paprika 1 tablespoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 6 1/2 pounds pork ribs 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups water 3/4 cup ketchup 1/4 cup brown sugar 1/4 cup Chinese vinegar 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce  | Mix paprika , garlic powder , black pepper , and salt in a resealable plastic bag . Place ribs in bag , seal the bag , and shake thoroughly until ribs are completely coated . Remove ribs from bag and discard dry rub . Heat oil in a wok over medium-high heat . Cook ribs in hot oil until browned all over , 3 to 4 minutes per side . Stir water , ketchup , brown sugar , vinegar , and Worcestershire sauce together in a pressure cooker . Add browned ribs to pressure cooker . Lock the lid onto the pressure cooker , bring the cooker up to pressure , and reduce heat to medium . Cook ribs over medium heat for 15 minutes . Remove from heat and release pressure according to manufacturer's directions . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon salt , divided 3/4 cup boiling water 1/2 cup cold water , or as needed vegetable oil , or as needed , divided 1 bunch green onions (scallions) , minced  | Mix flour and 1 teaspoon salt together in a large bowl ; pour in boiling water and quickly mix together until water is absorbed . Work cold water , about 1 tablespoon at a time , into flour mixture just until dough forms . Knead dough for 10 minutes . Cover bowl with a damp cloth and let dough rest for 40 minutes . Turn dough onto a lightly floured work surface ; divide into 4 equal pieces . Roll 1 piece of dough into a large thin round ; brush the top with vegetable oil and sprinkle with about 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/4 the green onions . Pick up 1 end of the round and roll dough around green onions into a long scroll-shape . Take 1 scroll end and roll dough into a disk . Repeat with remaining dough , letting each disk rest for 10 minutes . Heat about 1 tablespoon vegetable oil in a skillet over medium-low heat . Place 1 disk on a floured surface and roll into a 1/2-inch thick round ; cook in the hot oil until golden brown , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Repeat with remaining disks . 
2 pork tenderloins 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/3 cup honey 1/3 cup ketchup 1/3 cup brown sugar 1/4 cup Chinese rice wine 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons red food coloring 1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder (optional)  | Cut pork with the grain into strips 1 1/2- to 2-inches long ; put into a large resealable plastic bag . Stir soy sauce , honey , ketchup , brown sugar , rice wine , hoisin sauce , red food coloring , and Chinese five-spice powder together in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; cook and stir until just combined and slightly warm , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour the marinade into the bag with the pork , squeeze air from the bag , and seal . Turn bag a few times to coat all pork pieces in marinade . Marinate pork in refrigerator , 2 hours to overnight . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat and lightly oil the grate . Remove pork from marinade and shake to remove excess liquid . Discard remaining marinade . Cook pork on preheated grill for 20 minutes . Put a small container of water onto the grill and continue cooking , turning the pork regularly , until cooked through , about 1 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . 
1/2 cup brown sugar 1/4 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes  | Mix brown sugar , soy sauce , garlic powder , and crushed red pepper in a bowl . 
4 quarts water 1 (3 pound) whole chicken 2 3/4 inch piece fresh ginger , divided 1 green onion , white part only , crushed 2 fresh red chile peppers , seeded and thinly sliced into 1 1/2-inch slivers 6 dried red chile peppers (optional) 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 cup lard 4 teaspoons Shaoxing cooking wine 1/4 cup rice vinegar salt to taste 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/4 cup cold water 5 green onions , green parts cut into even slivers 2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Bring 4 quarts water to a boil in a large pot ; add whole chicken to the boiling water . Crush half the ginger and add to the boiling water . Add crushed green onion white . Boil chicken until 3/4 cooked , about 10 minutes . Remove from pot and cool ; reserve chicken broth . Remove skin from cooled chicken and cut meat from the bones . Cut meat into bite-sized pieces and set aside . Discard skin and bones . Peel the remaining half ginger piece and slice into 1 1/2-inch slivers . Combine ginger slivers , fresh red chile pepper slivers , dried red chile peppers , and red pepper flakes in a bowl . Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat ; add lard and swirl around until melted . Cook and stir ginger-chile pepper mixture in the hot lard , continuously moving wok , until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add chicken meat ; splash cooking wine around the edges of the chicken . Pour in vinegar and season with salt . Pour about 1 cup (or more as needed) leftover chicken broth into the chicken mixture ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat and simmer until chicken is no longer pink in the center and liquid is mostly evaporated , 5 to 10 minutes . Whisk cornstarch and 1/4 cup cold water together in a small bowl . Stir cornstarch mixture into chicken mixture ; stir to coat chicken . Add 5 green onions and stir to combine . Remove from heat and stir in sesame oil . 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 pound tiger shrimp , peeled and deveined 1 cup chopped onion 1 1/2 cups sliced king mushrooms 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 3 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon oyster sauce , or to taste 1 pound fresh Chinese wheat noodles 2 cups bean sprouts  | Heat sesame oil and olive oil in a large wok or frying pan over medium heat ; cook and stir shrimp and onion in the hot oil until coated . Mix mushrooms , green bell pepper , and garlic into shrimp mixture , stirring constantly . Add ginger and stir . Pour water and oyster sauce into shrimp mixture ; simmer until shrimp are bright pink on the outside and the meat is no longer transparent in the center , 5 minutes . Stir well . Mix noodles and bean sprouts into shrimp mixture ; toss to combine . Cook until noodles are heated through , 2 minutes . Toss again . 
1 tablespoon rice wine 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch 3/4 pound ground pork 2 tablespoons finely chopped green onion (white and light green parts) 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1 teaspoon white sugar salt to taste 25 wonton wrappers 1 egg , beaten 3 heads bok choy , sliced 10 sugar snap peas , sliced 1 carrot , thinly sliced 2 tablespoons finely chopped green onion (white and light green parts) 2 cups chicken broth 1 cup water 1/4 cup finely chopped green onion (white and light green parts)  | Whisk rice wine and cornstarch together in large bowl . Add ground pork , 2 tablespoons green onion , soy sauce , ginger , sesame oil , and sugar ; stir until well combined and paste-like , about 10 minutes . Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour . Place about 1 tablespoon pork mixture in the middle of a wonton wrapper . Brush edges with beaten egg and pinch edges to seal , creating a small pouch . Repeat with remaining wonton wrappers and pork mixture . Refrigerate until ready to use . Place a steamer insert into a saucepan and fill with water to just below the bottom of the steamer . Bring water to a boil . Add bok choy , snap peas , carrot , and 2 tablespoons green onion , cover , and steam until tender , 2 to 6 minutes . Remove and distribute evenly among 4 soup bowls . Place wontons in steamer basket and steam until pork is no longer pink inside , about 10 minutes . Remove and place in soup bowls alongside vegetables . Heat chicken broth and water in a saucepan until hot , 5 to 7 minutes . Pour hot broth mixture evenly into soup bowls atop vegetables and wontons . Sprinkle 1/4 cup chopped green onion evenly over each bowl . 
2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 1 whole star anise pod , crushed 1 pinch Chinese five-spice powder 1 tablespoon aji mirin (sweet rice cooking wine) , or more to taste 1 (1 pound) boneless pork loin roast  | Combine honey , hoisin sauce , dark soy sauce , star anise , five-spice powder , and aji mirin in a glass measuring cup . Set microwave oven for 60 percent power and heat in microwave oven for 22 seconds . Stir mixture and pour into a large resealable plastic bag . Add pork loin to the bag , knead to coat meat with marinade , and refrigerate at least 4 hours or up to two days . Preheat grill for medium heat and lightly oil the grate . Remove pork roast from bag and wrap meat tightly in aluminum foil . Discard used marinade . Cook on the preheated grill until an instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the roast reads 155 degrees F (70 degrees C) , about 50 minutes . Let meat stand for 10 minutes before slicing . 
1 pound beef top sirloin steak 1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons white sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 red onion , cut into 1-inch squares 1 green bell pepper , cut into 1-inch squares 2 tomatoes , cut into wedges  | Slice the steak into 1/2-inch thick slices across the grain . Whisk together soy sauce , sugar , cornstarch , and ginger in a bowl until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is smooth . Place the steak slices into the marinade , and stir until well-coated . Heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and place 1/3 of the steak strips into the hot oil . Cook and stir until the beef is well-browned , about 3 minutes , and remove the beef from the wok to a bowl . Repeat twice more , with the remaining beef , and set the cooked beef aside . Return all the cooked beef to the hot wok , and stir in the onion . Toss the beef and onion together until the onion begins to soften , about 2 minutes , then stir in the green pepper . Cook and stir the mixture until the pepper has turned bright green and started to become tender , about 2 minutes , then add the tomatoes , stir everything together , and serve . 
2 1 1/2-inch-thick New York strip steaks , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 teaspoons dried minced onion 1/4 teaspoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon soy sauce (optional) 2 cups white rice 4 cups water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 cup canned sliced bamboo shoots , drained 1/2 cup canned sliced mushrooms , drained (optional) 1/4 cup chopped green onion 1/2 green bell pepper , thinly sliced 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional) 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1 cup broccoli florets 1/4 cup sugar snap peas (optional) 2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons water 1/2 (10 fluid ounce) bottle oyster sauce 1/4 cup chopped green onion  | Place steak in a bowl ; top with minced onion , garlic , and 1 tablespoon soy sauce . Stir to coat . Bring rice and 4 cups water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir bamboo shoots , mushrooms , 1/4 cup green onion , green bell pepper , red pepper flakes , and 3 tablespoons soy sauce in the hot oil until green bell pepper is slightly tender , 4 to 5 minutes . Add steak , broccoli , and sugar snap peas ; cook until beef is browned and no longer pink in the center , about 10 minutes . Whisk cornstarch and 2 tablespoons water together in a bowl until cornstarch is dissolved . Heat oyster sauce in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; slowly stir in cornstarch mixture until sauce is thickened , 3 to 5 minutes . Stir oyster sauce mixture into steak mixture ; sprinkle with 1/4 cup green onions . Cook steak mixture until sauce is thickened , 7 to 8 minutes . Serve over rice . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1/2 pound ground beef 1/2 small head cabbage , shredded 1 red bell pepper , cut into strips 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon ground black pepper  | Heat a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat , and add oil . Saute garlic for about 5 seconds , then add ground beef . Stir-fry until beef is evenly brown . Stir in cabbage and pepper , and cook until vegetables are tender , and beef is fully cooked . Stir in soy sauce . Mix together cornstarch and water , and stir in . Season with pepper . Cook , stirring , until sauce has thickened . 
1 cup water 2/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup walnuts 4 egg whites 2/3 cup mochiko (glutinous rice flour) 1/4 cup mayonnaise 1 pound large shrimp , peeled and deveined 2 tablespoons honey 1 tablespoon canned sweetened condensed milk 1 cup vegetable oil for frying  | Stir together the water and sugar in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil and add the walnuts . Boil for 2 minutes , then drain and place walnuts on a cookie sheet to dry . Whip egg whites in a medium bowl until foamy . Stir in the mochiko until it has a pasty consistency . Heat the oil in a heavy deep skillet over medium-high heat . Dip shrimp into the mochiko batter , and then fry in the hot oil until golden brown , about 5 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels . In a medium serving bowl , stir together the mayonnaise , honey and sweetened condensed milk . Add shrimp and toss to coat with the sauce . Sprinkle the candied walnuts on top and serve . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons peanut butter 2 teaspoons brown sugar 3/4 teaspoon hot chile paste 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 3 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 16 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers , shredded 4 cups romaine lettuce - torn , washed and dried 2 cups shredded carrots 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | To prepare the dressing , whisk together the hoisin sauce , peanut butter , brown sugar , chili paste , ginger , vinegar , and sesame oil . Grill or broil the chicken breasts until cooked , about 10 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Cool and slice . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 C) . Spray a large shallow pan with nonstick vegetable spray ; arrange shredded wontons in a single layer and bake until golden brown , about 20 minutes . Cool . In a large bowl , combine the chicken , wontons , lettuce , carrots , green onions and cilantro . Toss with dressing and serve . 
1 pound ground pork 1 egg 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) (optional) 1 teaspoon salt 2 green onions , chopped and divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 head napa cabbage , cored and cut into chunks 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth 2 cups water , or as needed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Mix the ground pork , egg , cornstarch , 2 teaspoons of sesame oil , ginger , monosodium glutamate , salt , and half of the chopped green onions together in a bowl . Use your hands to mix until the ingredients are evenly distributed . Set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . When the oil is hot , fry the napa cabbage , stirring constantly , until cabbage begins to wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour in the chicken broth , water , and soy sauce . Bring to a boil , then lower the heat to medium . Use a spoon to form the meat mixture into 1 inch balls . Drop them into the boiling soup . When the last ball has been added , cover with a lid and simmer for 10 minutes . Taste , and adjust salt before serving . Garnish with remaining green onions and a drizzle of sesame oil . 
1 pound flank steak , cut into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup cornstarch 2 teaspoons olive oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon minced garlic 3 large green onions , sliced diagonally into 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 cup hoisin sauce  | Place flank steak and cornstarch into a resealable plastic bag . Shake the bag to evenly coat the flank steak with the cornstarch . Allow to steak rest for 10 minutes . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir steak until evenly browned , 2 to 4 minutes . Place onion , garlic , flank steak , green onions , soy sauce , water , brown sugar , ginger , and hoisin sauce in a slow cooker . Cook on Low setting for about 4 hours . 
12 ounces boneless , skinless chicken breast halves , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 large onion , cut into rings 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 medium head bok choy , chopped 1 small head broccoli , chopped 1 tablespoon cornstarch , mixed with equal parts water  | In a large bowl , combine chicken , oyster sauce and soy sauce . Set aside for 15 minutes . Heat oil in a wok or large heavy skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic and onion until soft and translucent . Increase heat to high . Add chicken and marinade , then stir-fry until light golden brown , about 10 minutes . Stir in water , pepper and sugar . Add bok choy and broccoli , and cook stirring until soft , about 10 minutes . Pour in the cornstarch mixture , and cook until sauce is thickened , about 5 minutes . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup cornstarch 2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup vegetable oil 4 teaspoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger root 1/2 cup chopped green onion 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup distilled white vinegar 1/2 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 cup oyster sauce 1/4 cup ketchup  | Coat the chicken pieces with 1/4 cup of cornstarch ; set aside . Beat the eggs , salt , and pepper in a mixing bowl until smooth . Stir in the flour and baking powder until no large lumps remain . Mix in the chicken until evenly coated . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Drop in the chicken pieces ; cook until golden brown and no longer pink on the inside , about 12 minutes . Set the chicken aside ; keep warm . Reduce the heat to medium-high and stir in the sesame oil , ginger , and green onion . Cook and stir until the onion is limp and the ginger begins to brown , about 1 minute . Pour in the water , vinegar , and sugar ; bring to a boil . Dissolve the cornstarch in the soy sauce and add to the simmering vinegar along with the oyster sauce and ketchup . Stir until the sauce has thickened and is no longer cloudy . Stir in the chicken and simmer until hot . 
1/2 pound boneless pork loin , coarsely chopped 2 ounces peeled shrimp , finely chopped 1 teaspoon brown sugar 1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine 1 tablespoon light soy sauce 1 teaspoon finely chopped green onion 1 teaspoon chopped fresh ginger root 24 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers 3 cups chicken stock 1/8 cup finely chopped green onion  | In a large bowl , combine pork , shrimp , sugar , wine , soy sauce , 1 teaspoon chopped green onion and ginger . Blend well , and let stand for 25 to 30 minutes . Place about one teaspoon of the filling at the center of each wonton skin . Moisten all 4 edges of wonton wrapper with water , then pull the top corner down to the bottom , folding the wrapper over the filling to make a triangle . Press edges firmly to make a seal . Bring left and right corners together above the filling . Overlap the tips of these corners , moisten with water and press together . Continue until all wrappers are used . FOR SOUP : Bring the chicken stock to a rolling boil . Drop wontons in , and cook for 5 minutes . Garnish with chopped green onion , and serve . 
1/2 tablespoon sesame oil 1 onion 1 1/2 pounds cooked , cubed chicken meat 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 large carrots , diced 2 stalks celery , chopped 1 large red bell pepper , diced 3/4 cup fresh pea pods , halved 1/2 large green bell pepper , diced 6 cups cooked white rice 2 eggs 1/3 cup soy sauce  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and saute until soft , then add chicken and 2 tablespoons soy sauce and stir-fry for 5 to 6 minutes . Stir in carrots , celery , red bell pepper , pea pods and green bell pepper and stir-fry another 5 minutes . Then add rice and stir thoroughly . Finally , stir in scrambled eggs and 1/3 cup soy sauce , heat through and serve hot . 
6 thick cut pork chops (1 inch) 1/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup ketchup 1 clove garlic , crushed salt and pepper to taste  | Trim excess fat from pork chops and place in slow cooker . Mix brown sugar , ginger , soy sauce , ketchup , garlic , salt and pepper in small bowl and pour over meat . Cover , turn to low and cook 4 to 6 hours , or until tender . Season with salt and pepper , if needed . 
2 long Chinese eggplants , cubed 1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 green chile pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon chili oil , or to taste 2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  | Place the eggplant cubes into a large bowl , and sprinkle with salt . Fill with enough water to cover , and let stand for 30 minutes . Rinse well , and drain on paper towels . In a small bowl , stir together the soy sauce , red wine vinegar , sugar , chile pepper , cornstarch and chili oil . Set the sauce aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Fry the eggplant until it is tender and begins to brown , 5 to 10 minutes . Pour in the sauce , and cook and stir until the sauce is thick and the eggplant is evenly coated . Serve immediately . 
1 teaspoon sesame seeds 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound beef round steak , cut into thin strips 3/4 cup water 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 2 carrots , thinly sliced 1 bunch green onions , cut into 2 inch pieces  | In a dry skillet over medium heat , toast sesame seeds for 1 to2 minutes , or until the seeds begin to turn golden brown ; set aside . In a medium bowl , mix together 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon cornstarch , and minced garlic . Stir in beef strips . Let stand for at least 10 minutes . In a separate small bowl , mix together water , 2 tablespoons soy sauce , 2 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch , sugar , sesame seeds , and red pepper flakes ; set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a wok or skillet over high heat . Cook and stir beef in hot oil for 1 minute ; remove , and set aside . Heat remaining tablespoon of oil in the same pan . Saute carrots and white part of green onions for 2 minutes . Stir in green parts of the green onion , and saute for 1 minute . Stir in sesame seed mixture and beef . Cook and stir until sauce boils and thickens . 
1/2 pound ground pork 1/2 medium head cabbage , finely chopped 1 green onion , finely chopped 2 slices fresh ginger root , finely chopped 2 water chestnuts , drained and finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1 (14 ounce) package wonton wrappers 5 tablespoons vegetable oil 3/4 cup water 1 tablespoon chili oil 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon rice vinegar  | Crumble pork into a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain and set aside . In a medium bowl , mix together the pork , cabbage , green onion , ginger , water chestnuts , salt , sugar and sesame oil . Chill in the refrigerator 6 to 8 hours , or overnight . Place a tablespoon of the pork mixture into each of the wonton wrappers . Fold the wrappers , and seal the edges with a moistened fork . In a large , deep skillet , heat 3 tablespoons vegetable oil over medium high heat . Place the pot stickers into the oil seam sides up . Heat 30 seconds to a minute . Pour water into the skillet . Gently boil 7 to 8 minutes , until oil and water begins to sizzle , then add remaining oil . When the bottoms begin to brown , remove pot stickers from heat . In a small serving bowl , mix together the chili oil , soy sauce , and vinegar , adjusting proportions to taste . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 tablespoons brown sugar 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 large red onion , chopped ground black pepper to taste 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 2 leeks , chopped 1 small carrot , chopped 1 pound beef round steak , sliced paper thin  | In a large bowl , mix together the soy sauce , sesame oil , brown sugar , garlic , and red onion . Stir in the black pepper , red pepper flakes , sesame seeds , leeks and carrot . Mix in the meat by hand to ensure even coating . Cover and let marinate for at least 2 hours or overnight . Brush the bottom half of a wok with cooking oil , and heat over medium-high heat . Put in all of the meat and marinade at once , and cook stirring constantly . The meat will be cooked after just a few minutes . Remove from heat and serve with rice or noodles . For Korean style fire meat , roll the meat mixture up in a leaf of red lettuce . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 2 tablespoons white wine 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons sesame oil , divided 2 tablespoons cornstarch , dissolved in 2 tablespoons water 1 ounce hot chile paste 1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 2 teaspoons brown sugar 4 green onions , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts 4 ounces chopped peanuts  | To Make Marinade : Combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture and mix together . Place chicken pieces in a glass dish or bowl and add marinade . Toss to coat . Cover dish and place in refrigerator for about 30 minutes . To Make Sauce : In a small bowl combine 1 tablespoon wine , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , 1 tablespoon oil , 1 tablespoon cornstarch/water mixture , chili paste , vinegar and sugar . Mix together and add green onion , garlic , water chestnuts and peanuts . In a medium skillet , heat sauce slowly until aromatic . Meanwhile , remove chicken from marinade and saute in a large skillet until meat is white and juices run clear . When sauce is aromatic , add sauteed chicken to it and let simmer together until sauce thickens . 
2 (14.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 egg , lightly beaten 2 tablespoons chopped green onion  | In a medium stock pot , mix cold chicken broth with cornstarch . Slowly heat over medium heat , stirring frequently . Pour beaten egg into soup , and stir once around stock pot very gently , in order to break up egg . Remove soup from heat immediately , divide into four portions and garnish with green onions . 
1 egg white 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 pinch salt 1/4 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F . Butter a cookie sheet . Write fortunes on strips of paper about 4 inches long and 1/2 inch wide . Generously grease 2 cookie sheets . Mix the egg white and vanilla until foamy but not stiff . Sift the flour , salt , and sugar and blend into the egg white mixture . Place teaspoonfuls of the batter at least 4 inches apart on one of the prepared cookie sheets . Tilt the sheet to move the batter into round shapes about 3 inches in diameter . Be careful to make batter as round and even as possible . Do not make too many , because the cookie have to be really hot to form them and once they cool it is too late . Start with 2 or 3 to a sheet and see how many you can do . Bake for 5 minutes or until cookie has turned a golden color 1/2 inch wide around the outer edge of the circle . The center will remain pale . While one sheet is baking , prepare the other . Remove from oven and quickly move cookie with a wide spatula and place upside down on a wooden board . Quickly place the fortune on the cookie , close to the middle and fold the cookie in half . Place the folded edge across the rim of a measuring cup and pull the pointed edges down , one on the inside of the cup and one on the outside . Place folded cookies into the cups of a muffin tin or egg carton to hold their shape until firm . 
8 ounces uncooked spaghetti 1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 cups fresh sliced mushrooms 1 cup shredded carrots 1/2 cup sliced red bell peppers 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups fresh bean sprouts 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth 1/4 cup hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon curry powder  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat oil in a large wok or saute pan . Stir fry mushrooms , carrots , peppers , onion and garlic until tender . Stir in bean sprouts and green onions ; cook one minute . Mix cornstarch and chicken broth in a small bowl and add to stir fry . Stir in hoisin sauce , honey , soy sauce , ginger , cayenne pepper and curry powder . Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly . Add cooked spaghetti , and toss . Serve immediately . 
4 teaspoons vegetable oil 3 eggs , beaten 1 medium head cabbage , finely shredded 1/2 carrot , julienned 1 (8 ounce) can shredded bamboo shoots 1 cup dried , shredded wood ear mushroom , rehydrated 1 pound Chinese barbequed or roasted pork , cut into matchsticks 2 green onions , thinly sliced 2 1/2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1 (14 ounce) package egg roll wrappers 1 egg white , beaten 4 cups oil for frying , or as needed  | Heat 1 teaspoon vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Pour in beaten eggs and cook , without stirring , until firmed . Flip the eggs over and cook for an additional 20 seconds to firm the other side . Set egg pancake aside to cool , then slice into thin strips . Heat the remaining vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in cabbage and carrot ; cook for 2 minutes to wilt . Add bamboo , mushroom , pork , green onions , soy sauce , salt , sugar , and MSG ; continue cooking until the vegetables soften , about 6 minutes . Stir in sliced egg , then spread mixture out onto a pan , and refrigerate until cold , about 1 hour . To assemble the egg rolls , place a wrapper onto your work surface with one corner pointing towards you . Place about 3 tablespoons of cooled filling in a heap onto the bottom third of the wrapper . Brush a little beaten egg white onto the top two edges of the wrapper , then fold the bottom corner over the filling and roll firmly to the halfway point . Fold the left and right sides snugly over the egg roll , then continue rolling until the top corners seal the egg roll with the egg white . Repeat with remaining egg roll wrappers , covering finished egg rolls with plastic wrap to keep from drying out . Heat about 6-inches of oil in a wok or deep-fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Fry egg rolls 3 or 4 at a time until golden brown , 5 to 7 minutes . Drain on paper towels . 
3 tablespoons canola oil 4 Chinese eggplants , halved lengthwise and cut into 1 inch half moons 1 cup water 1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes 3 tablespoons garlic powder 5 teaspoons white sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons light soy sauce 2 tablespoons oyster sauce  | Heat the canola oil in a skillet over high heat . Cook and stir the eggplant until soft , about 4 minutes . Stir in the water , red pepper flakes , and garlic powder . Cover and simmer until all the water is absorbed . Meanwhile , mix sugar , cornstarch , soy sauce , and oyster sauce in a bowl until sugar and cornstarch have dissolved . Stir sauce into the eggplant , making sure to evenly coat the eggplant . Cook until the sauce has thickened . 
5 dried wood ear mushrooms 4 dried shiitake mushrooms 8 dried tiger lily buds 4 cups chicken stock 1/3 cup diced bamboo shoots 1/3 cup lean ground pork 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 3 tablespoons water 1/2 (16 ounce) package firm tofu , cubed 1 egg , lightly beaten 1 teaspoon sesame oil 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion  | Soak the dried mushrooms and tiger lily buds in warm water for 20 minutes . After trimming off any tough stems , slice the mushrooms . With the fingers , shred the tiger lily stems . Place the mushrooms , tiger lily buds , stock , bamboo shoots , and shredded pork into a saucepan . Bring to a boil , and simmer for 10 minutes . Stir in soy sauce , sugar , salt , white pepper , and vinegar . Combine cornstarch with 3 tablespoons water . Add a little of the hot soup to the cornstarch , and then return all to the pan . Heat to boiling , stirring . Add the bean curd , and cook 1 to 2 minutes . Just before serving , turn off the heat . Stir the egg in gradually . Mix in sesame oil . Sprinkle each serving with scallions . 
1 (1 1/2 pound) eggplant 4 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 cup chicken stock 1 teaspoon chili sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons oyster sauce (optional) 1 tablespoon cornstarch 4 tablespoons water 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 large green onions , finely chopped 1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger root 1/4 pound fresh shrimp - peeled , deveined , and diced 1/3 pound lean ground beef 1 tablespoon sesame oil 4 cups hot cooked rice  | Remove the eggplant stem and cut into 1-inch cubes . In a medium bowl , combine the soy sauce , chicken stock , chili sauce , sugar , ground black pepper and oyster sauce . Stir together well and set aside . In a separate small bowl , combine the cornstarch and water , and set aside . Coat a large , deep pan with cooking spray over high heat and allow a few minutes for it to get very hot . Saute the garlic , half of the green onions , ginger and dried shrimp , if using (see Cook's Note) for 3 to 5 minutes , stirring constantly , until they begin to brown . Stir in the ground beef or pork and cook for 3 more minutes , again stirring constantly , until browned . Pour the eggplant into the pan and stir all together . Pour the reserved soy sauce mixture over all , cover the pan , reduce heat to medium low and let simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . If you're using fresh shrimp , add it during the last few minutes of cooking . Stir in the reserved cornstarch mixture and let heat until thickened . Finally , stir in the rest of the green onions and the sesame oil . Serve over hot rice . 
1 cup confectioners' sugar 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup butter 1 egg , beaten 1 dash vanilla extract 2/3 cup white sugar 1 1/2 cups water 9 eggs , beaten 1 dash vanilla extract 1 cup evaporated milk  | In a medium bowl , mix together the confectioners' sugar and flour . Mix in butter with a fork until it is in small crumbs . Stir in the egg and vanilla until the mixture forms a dough . The texture should be slightly moist . Add more butter if it is too dry , or more flour , if the dough seems greasy . Shape dough into 1 1/2 inch balls , and press the balls into tart molds so that it covers the bottom , and goes up higher than the sides . Use 2 fingers to shape the edge into an A shape . Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Combine the white sugar and water in a medium saucepan , and bring to a boil . Cook until the sugar is dissolved , remove from heat and cool to room temperature . Strain the eggs through a sieve , and whisk into the sugar mixture . Stir in the evaporated milk and vanilla . Strain the filling through a sieve , and fill the tart shells . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown , and the filling is puffed up a little bit . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup warm water 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  | Mix together yeast , 1 teaspoon sugar , 1/4 cup flour , and 1/4 cup warm water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Mix in 1/2 cup warm water , flour , salt , 2 tablespoons sugar , and vegetable oil . Knead until dough surface is smooth and elastic . Roll over in a greased bowl , and let stand until triple in size , about 2 1/2 to 3 hours . Punch down dough , and spread out on a floured board . Sprinkle baking powder evenly on surface , and knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 2 parts , and place the piece you are not working with in a covered bowl . Divide each half into 12 parts . Shape each part into a ball with smooth surface up . Put each ball on a wax paper square . Let stand covered until double , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
2 3/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup lard 1 egg 1 teaspoon almond extract 48 almonds  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Sift flour , sugar , baking soda and salt together into a bowl . Cut in the lard until mixture resembles cornmeal . Add egg and almond extract . Mix well . Roll dough into 1-inch balls . Set them 2 inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet . Place an almond on top of each cookie and press down to flatten slightly . Bake in the preheated oven until the edges of the cookies are golden brown , 15 to 18 minutes . 
100 (3.5 inch square) wonton wrappers 1 3/4 pounds ground pork 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion 4 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons sesame oil 1 egg , beaten 5 cups finely shredded Chinese cabbage  | In a large bowl , combine the pork , ginger , garlic , green onion , soy sauce , sesame oil , egg and cabbage . Stir until well mixed . Place 1 heaping teaspoon of pork filling onto each wonton skin . Moisten edges with water and fold edges over to form a triangle shape . Roll edges slightly to seal in filling . Set dumplings aside on a lightly floured surface until ready to cook . To Cook : Steam dumplings in a covered bamboo or metal steamer for about 15 to 20 minutes . Serve immediately . 
3 pounds boneless chicken breasts , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 tablespoon dry sherry 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 2 cups vegetable oil 1/4 cup cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/3 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 1 lemon , sliced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil  | In a large bowl combine the chicken pieces , sherry , soy sauce and 1/2 teaspoon salt . Mix together , cover and refrigerate . Let marinate for 15 to 20 minutes . In a small bowl , whisk together 1/4 cup cornstarch and the baking powder ; beat in eggs to form a batter . Coat chicken pieces with batter and set aside . In a wok , heat 2 cups oil to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Working in batches , fry chicken pieces in hot oil until browned . Transfer to paper towel-lined plate . In a medium bowl combine the sugar , 1 tablespoon cornstarch , broth , lemon juice and 1 teaspoon salt . Mix together and add lemon slices . Heat 2 tablespoons oil in small saucepan and slowly stir in lemon sauce mixture . Cook , stirring , until sauce is clear . Pour sauce over chicken and serve . 
1 cup uncooked white rice 2 cups water 2 tablespoons sesame oil 3 green onions , thinly sliced including tops 1 cup diced ham 1/2 cup peas 1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained 1 egg , beaten 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon white pepper 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 cup soy sauce  | Bring the rice and water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the rice is tender , and the liquid has been absorbed , 20 to 25 minutes . Spread cooked rice out on a rimmed baking sheet and refrigerate until cooled , about 20 minutes . Heat sesame oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Cook and stir the green onions , ham , and peas in the hot oil until onions have softened , about 2 minutes . Stir the pineapple chunks into the wok ; cook until pineapple begins to darken , about 2 minute . Push ingredients to the side of the wok , and pour beaten egg in the center . Cook until egg begins to set , about 30 seconds . Stir together all contents of the wok . Mix the cooled rice , sugar , salt , white pepper , and garlic powder into the wok ; stir constantly to keep from sticking . Cook until heated through , about 3 minutes . Sprinkle the rice with the soy sauce , and stir to combine . 
8 cubes chicken bouillon 6 cups hot water 2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 1 green onion , minced 3 eggs , beaten  | In a large saucepan , dissolve bouillon in hot water . Mix cornstarch with a small amount of water , and stir into bouillon . Add soy sauce , vinegar , and green onion . Bring to a boil , then simmer , stirring occasionally . Gradually pour the beaten eggs into the saucepan while stirring . Serve at once . 
1 pound sirloin steak , cut into bite size strips 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper 1 clove garlic , minced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups fresh broccoli florets 2 small onions , cut into wedges 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts , drained 1/4 cup chicken broth 1/2 cup peanuts  | Toss beef with soy sauce , cornstarch , crushed red pepper and garlic in non-metal bowl . Cover and refrigerate 20 minutes . Heat oil in wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir fry beef until no longer pink , 5 minutes . Stir in broccoli , onions and water chestnuts ; cook 2 minutes . Pour in broth , and bring to a boil . Stir in peanuts , cook one minute more , and serve . 
1 (14 ounce) package small won ton wrappers 2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley 3 tablespoons dark soy sauce 1 pound crabmeat , shredded 1 quart oil for frying  | Heat oil in a large heavy skillet or deep fryer to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . In a small bowl , mix together cream cheese , soy sauce , ginger , garlic , parsley , cilantro and crabmeat . Place 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of the cream cheese mixture into the center of each wonton wrapper . Fold the won ton wrapper over the stuffing to make a triangle or a half moon , depending on the shape of the won ton wrappers you have purchased . Moisten the edges with a little water , and seal . Place prepared won tons under a slightly moist paper towel until ready for frying . Add 3 or 4 wontons to the hot oil , and cook until golden brown , turning once . Set aside on paper towels to drain . Repeat until all wontons have been fried . Serve hot . 
2 (3 ounce) packages Oriental flavored ramen noodles 3 eggs , beaten vegetable oil 4 green onions , thinly sliced 1 small carrot , peeled and grated 1/2 cup green peas 1/4 cup red bell pepper , minced 2 tablespoons sesame oil soy sauce  | Boil ramen noodles for 3 minutes , or until softened , without flavor packets . Reserve flavor packets . Drain noodles , and set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a small skillet . Scramble eggs in a bowl . Cook and stir in hot oil until firm . Set aside . In a separate skillet , heat 1 teaspoon of oil over medium heat . Cook and stir green onions in oil for 2 to 3 minutes , or until softened . Transfer to a separate dish , and set aside . Heat another teaspoon of cooking oil in the same skillet . Cook and stir the the carrots , peas , and bell peppers separately in the same manner , setting each aside when done . Combine 2 tablespoons sesame oil with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a separate skillet or wok . Fry noodles in oil for 3 to 5 minutes over medium heat , turning regularly . Sprinkle soy sauce , sesame oil , and desired amount of reserved ramen seasoning packets over noodles , and toss to coat . Add vegetables , and continue cooking , turning frequently , for another 5 minutes . 
1/4 cup butter 2 (3 ounce) packages Oriental-flavor ramen noodle soup , seasoning packet reserved 1/2 cup slivered almonds 1/4 cup sesame seeds 1 (16 ounce) package broccoli coleslaw mix 1/2 cup chopped green onion 1/2 cup salad oil 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar 1/2 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons soy sauce  | Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Melt butter in a microwave-safe bowl in the microwave . Crush the ramen noodles into small pieces ; stir the crushed noodles , almonds , and sesame seeds into the butter . Spread the mixture onto a baking sheet . Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown and crunchy , 8 to 10 minutes ; allow to cool completely . Toss together the coleslaw mix and the green onion in a large bowl . Whisk together the salad oil , vinegar , sugar , soy sauce , and reserved seasoning packets in a separate bowl ; stir the noodle mixture into the dressing . Pour the dressing over the coleslaw mix and toss to coat . 
4 cups water 4 cubes chicken bouillon 2 eggs 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1 tablespoon dried minced onion 1 tablespoon cornstarch  | In a medium saucepan , combine water , bouillon , and parsley and onion flakes . Bring to a boil . Lightly beat eggs together . Gradually stir into soup . Remove about half a cup of the soup . Stir in cornstarch until there are no lumps , and return to the soup . Boil until soup thickens . 
2 pounds boneless sirloin tip roast 1/2 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons dry sherry 2 teaspoons sesame oil 3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teaspoons crushed red pepper 5 whole dried red chile peppers 3/8 cup vegetable oil , divided 4 bunches green onions , cut into 2 inch pieces  | Partially freeze the roast for easier slicing . Slice the roast into 3x1/2 inch strips , and set aside . In a large bowl , combine well the soy sauce , sherry , sesame oil , cornstarch , brown sugar , crushed red pepper and whole chile peppers . Place beef in the mixture and coat well . Cover and refrigerate for 20 to 30 minutes . Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large skillet or wok over medium high heat . Place green onions in the hot oil . Cover , reduce heat to low and cook 6 minutes , or until tender . Remove green onions and set aside . In the same skillet or wok , heat remaining 1/4 cup of oil over medium high heat . Add beef mixture and saute for 5 minutes , or until the beef is thoroughly cooked . Return green onions to the pan and saute for 30 seconds more , or until heated through . 
1 cup white sugar 1/4 cup cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth 1/2 cup water 1/8 cup white vinegar 2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 2 tablespoons sesame oil 1 teaspoon chile paste 1 clove garlic , minced  | In a saucepan , mix together sugar and cornstarch . Stir in chicken broth , water , vinegar , soy sauce , sesame oil , chile paste , and garlic . Bring to a boil over medium heat , stirring constantly . Reduce heat , and simmer 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon ketchup 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon sake 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh garlic 1/4 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 pound pork spareribs  | In a shallow glass dish , mix together the hoisin sauce , ketchup , honey , soy sauce , sake , rice vinegar , lemon juice , ginger , garlic and five-spice powder . Place the ribs in the dish , and turn to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours , or as long as overnight . Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Fill a broiler tray with enough water to cover the bottom . Place the grate or rack over the tray . Arrange the ribs on the grate . Place the broiler rack in the center of the oven . Cook for 40 minutes , turning and brushing with the marinade every 10 minutes . Let the marinade cook on for the final 10 minutes to make a glaze . Finish under the broiler if desired . Discard any remaining marinade . 
1 (8 ounce) package dried rice noodles 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 tablespoon chili sauce salt and pepper to taste 1 green onion , chopped  | Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Add rice noodles , and cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until al dente ; do not overcook , or they will become mushy . Drain . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic until tender . Stir in noodles , and season with soy sauce , chili sauce , salt and pepper . Sprinkle top with chopped green onion . 
1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 teaspoons cooking sherry 1 pound medium shrimp - peeled and deveined 4 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 pound ground pork 1 cup water 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1/4 teaspoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/4 cup cold water 1 egg , beaten  | In a medium bowl , dissolve 1 1/2 teaspoons of cornstarch in the sherry . Add shrimp to the bowl , and toss to coat . Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat . Add shrimp , and fry until pink , 3 to 5 minutes . Remove shrimp to a plate with a slotted spoon , leaving as much oil in the pan as possible . Add garlic to the hot oil , and fry for a few seconds , then add the ground pork . Cook , stirring constantly until pork is no longer pink . Combine 1 cup water , soy sauce , sugar and salt ; stir into the wok with the pork . Bring to a boil , cover , reduce heat to medium , and simmer for about 2 minutes . Mix together the remaining 1 1 /2 tablespoons of cornstarch and 1/4 cup cold water . Pour into the pan with the pork , and also return shrimp to the pan . Return to a simmer , and quickly stir while drizzling in the beaten egg . Serve hot over rice . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breasts 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 cup sliced onion 2 cups broccoli florets 2 carrots , julienned 2 cups snow peas 4 cups dry Chinese noodles 1/4 cup teriyaki sauce  | In a large skillet brown chicken in oil , stirring constantly until juices run clear . Add the onion , broccoli , carrots and peas . Cover skillet and steam for 2 minutes . Add the Chinese noodles and teriyaki sauce . Stir noodles into chicken/vegetable mixture , making sure they are coated with sauce . When the noodles wilt , serve . 
8 ounces dry fettuccine pasta 2 tablespoons natural peanut butter 1/2 cup vegetable broth 2 tablespoons soy sauce 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 1 red bell pepper , chopped 2 green onions , chopped 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Cook pasta in a large pot of boiling water until al dente . Rinse and drain . Set aside . In a large bowl , combine peanut butter , broth , soy sauce , garlic , and crushed red pepper . Mix well . Add pasta , sliced red pepper , scallions , and cilantro ; toss to combine . Chill . 
4 ounces ground pork 2 tablespoons dry sherry 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/2 tablespoon fermented black beans , rinsed and mashed 1/2 tablespoon chili paste with garlic 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons soy sauce 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 (14 ounce) package tofu , drained and cut into cubes 1 cup frozen green peas 1/2 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon cornstarch , mixed with equal parts water  | In a small bowl , combine ground pork , sherry and 1 teaspoon cornstarch ; set aside . In a separate small bowl , combine black beans , chile paste , cayenne pepper , soy sauce , garlic , and ginger ; set aside . Heat a large skillet over medium heat . If pork is lean , add 1 tablespoon oil . Cook pork until evenly browned . Stir in black bean mixture , tofu , and peas . Pour in chicken broth , and bring to a boil . Stir in dissolved cornstarch , and cook until thickened . 
1/4 cup reduced-salt soy sauce 2 tablespoons white wine vinegar 2 tablespoons mirin (sweetened Asian wine) 1 teaspoon grated ginger root 2 crushed garlic cloves 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons oil , preferably sesame oil 1 pound boneless , skinless chicken breast , cut in 1-inch pieces 6 large green onions , cut in 1-inch pieces 2 cups fresh or frozen pepper strips 1 (20 ounce) can chunk pineapple in juice 1/4 cup sliced almonds (optional)  | Combine first six ingredients ; stir well . Heat oil in a large skillet and stir-fry chicken until brown and done , about 5 minutes . Remove . Add green onions , peppers and pineapple to the skillet ; heat through . Pour in sauce and stir until thickened . Return chicken to skillet ; heat through . Serve with brown rice ; top with optional almonds . 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon seasoned rice vinegar 1 tablespoon finely chopped Chinese chives 1 tablespoon sesame seeds 1 teaspoon chile-garlic sauce (such as Sriracha) 1 pound ground pork 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 egg , beaten 2 tablespoons finely chopped Chinese chives 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 50 dumpling wrappers 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 1 quart water , or more as needed  | Combine 1/2 cup soy sauce , rice vinegar , 1 tablespoon chives , sesame seeds , and chile sauce in a small bowl . Set aside . Mix pork , garlic , egg , 2 tablespoons chives , soy sauce , sesame oil , and ginger in a large bowl until thoroughly combined . Place a dumpling wrapper on a lightly floured work surface and spoon about 1 tablespoon of the filling in the middle . Wet the edge with a little water and crimp together forming small pleats to seal the dumpling . Repeat with remaining dumpling wrappers and filling . Heat 1 to 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Place 8 to 10 dumplings in the pan and cook until browned , about 2 minutes per side . Pour in 1 cup of water , cover and cook until the dumplings are tender and the pork is cooked through , about 5 minutes . Repeat for remaining dumplings . Serve with soy sauce mixture for dipping . 
1 pound halibut fillet 1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or kosher salt 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 3 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion 1 tablespoon dark soy sauce 1 tablespoon light soy sauce 1 tablespoon peanut oil 2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil 1/4 cup lightly packed fresh cilantro sprigs  | Pat halibut dry with paper towels . Rub both sides of fillet with salt . Scatter the ginger over the top of the fish and place onto a heatproof ceramic dish . Place into a bamboo steamer set over several inches of gently boiling water , and cover . Gently steam for 10 to 12 minutes . Pour accumulated water out of the dish and sprinkle the fillet with green onion . Drizzle both soy sauces over the surface of the fish . Heat peanut and sesame oils in a small skillet over medium-high heat until they begin to smoke . When the oil is hot , carefully pour on top of the halibut fillet . The very hot oil will cause the green onions and water on top of the fish to pop and spatter all over ; be careful . Garnish with cilantro sprigs and serve immediately . 
4 pounds bone-in pork roast 3/4 cup soy sauce 1/2 cup dry sherry 1/3 cup honey 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water  | To Marinate : Pierce meaty sides of meat with fork ; place roast in a large plastic bag . In a medium bowl combine the soy sauce , sherry , honey , garlic and ginger . Mix well and pour mixture into bag with pork . Press air out of the bag and tie securely . Refrigerate at least 8 hours or overnight , turning bag over occasionally . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Remove roast and marinade from refrigerator . Reserving marinade , remove roast and place in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Roast in the preheated oven for 1 hour . Brush with reserved marinade ; cover loosely with foil and roast for an additional 1 1/2 hours (or until the internal temperature has reached 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) , brushing several times with marinade . Remove roast from oven and let stand 15 minutes . Combine pan drippings with remaining marinade . In a small bowl combine cornstarch with cold water , mix together and add mixture to marinade . Boil marinade mixture for 4 to 5 minutes , or until mixture thickens . Serve with roast . 
2 heads fresh broccoli 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons light soy sauce 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 tablespoons sesame oil 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon white sugar  | Separate broccoli into bite-sized florets . Peel tough skin off stem and quarter it into 2 inch pieces cut slantwise . Bring 2 1/2 quarts water , 2 tablespoons oil and 1 tablespoon salt to boil . Add broccoli and boil quickly for 1 minute ; plunge into cold water to set color ; drain and place on platter or in a bowl . In a small bowl combine soy sauce , vinegar , sesame oil , 1/4 teaspoon salt and sugar . Pour mixture over broccoli , toss . This salad can be served hot or cold , your choice ! 
1 (8 ounce) can pineapple chunks , drained (juice reserved) 1/4 cup cornstarch 1 3/4 cups water , divided 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup distilled white vinegar 2 drops orange food color 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 2 1/4 cups self-rising flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 egg 1 1/2 cups water 1 quart vegetable oil for frying 2 green bell pepper , cut into 1 inch pieces  | In a saucepan , combine 1 1/2 cups water , sugar , vinegar , reserved pineapple juice , and orange food coloring . Heat to boiling . Turn off heat . Combine 1/4 cup cornstarch and 1/4 cup water ; slowly stir into saucepan . Continue stirring until mixture thickens . Combine flour , 2 tablespoons oil , 2 tablespoons cornstarch , salt , white pepper , and egg . Add 1 1/2 cups water gradually to make a thick batter . Stir to blend thoroughly . Add chicken pieces , and stir until chicken is well coated . Heat oil in skillet or wok to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C) . Fry chicken pieces in hot oil 10 minutes , or until golden . Remove chicken , and drain on paper towels . When ready to serve , layer green peppers , pineapple chunks , and cooked chicken pieces on a platter . Pour hot sweet and sour sauce over top . 
3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (3 ounce) package chicken flavored ramen noodles , crushed , seasoning packet reserved 1/2 cup vegetable oil 1 (16 ounce) package broccoli coleslaw mix 1/2 cup chopped green onions 4 ounces toasted slivered almonds 1/4 cup sesame seeds , toasted  | In a small saucepan , cook the vinegar and sugar over medium heat until dissolved . Remove from heat and stir in salt , pepper , ramen seasoning packet and oil . Set aside to cool . In a large bowl , combine the uncooked ramen noodles , broccoli coleslaw mix , and green onions . Pour dressing over salad ; toss evenly to coat . Refrigerate until chilled . Sprinkle with almonds and sesame seeds before serving . 
4 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 pound lean boneless pork , cut into thin strips 4 cups shredded cabbage 1 large carrot , shredded 1/2 green bell pepper , cut into thin strips 1 medium onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 3 teaspoons fresh ginger root , grated 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons molasses 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 quart oil for frying 1 1/2 (14 ounce) packages egg roll wrappers 1/4 cup water , as needed 1 1/2 cups sweet and sour sauce for dipping  | Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in large wok over medium-high heat . Stir-fry pork for 3 minutes . Transfer pork to paper towel-lined plate and set aside . In a large bowl , mix the cabbage , carrot , green bell pepper , onion , garlic and ginger . In a small bowl , mix the cornstarch , soy sauce , and molasses until smooth . Heat 2 tablespoons oil in wok . Stir in cabbage mixture in batches , cooking each batch 3 to 4 minutes , just until tender . Return vegetables to bowl , and mix in pork . Stir in the cornstarch mixture . Prepare a work surface for rolling the egg rolls . Lay several egg roll wrappers in a row . Place the water in a small bowl ; you'll use this for sealing . Place about 2 to 3 tablespoons filling on each egg roll wrapper . Dip a finger in the water and run it along the edge of the wrapper . Fold one corner of wrapper over filling . Fold wrapper sides over filling . Roll wrappers to form egg rolls (See Cook's Note) . Heat 1 quart oil in a deep fryer to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) . Fry egg rolls in batches in the hot oil until golden brown . Drain on paper towels and serve with sweet and sour sauce . 
1 1/2 pounds ground beef 2 cups shredded Chinese cabbage 1 carrot , shredded 1 onion , minced 1 egg 1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (14 ounce) package wonton wrappers  | In a large bowl , mix together beef , cabbage , carrot , and onion . Stir in the egg , sugar , salt , soy sauce , and vegetable oil . Place a large teaspoonful of filling in the center of a dumpling skin . Moisten the edges of a wonton with a few drops of water . Then fold the dumpling in half , and pinch the edges together to seal . Create a ripple pattern along the pinched edge by pinching and gently pushing together small segments of it . Repeat with remaining dumplings . Boil the dumplings in water until they float to the top , about 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon ketchup 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon sake 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh garlic 1/4 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 pound pork spareribs  | In a shallow glass dish , mix together the hoisin sauce , ketchup , honey , soy sauce , sake , rice vinegar , lemon juice , ginger , garlic and five-spice powder . Place the ribs in the dish , and turn to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours , or as long as overnight . Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Fill a broiler tray with enough water to cover the bottom . Place the grate or rack over the tray . Arrange the ribs on the grate . Place the broiler rack in the center of the oven . Cook for 40 minutes , turning and brushing with the marinade every 10 minutes . Let the marinade cook on for the final 10 minutes to make a glaze . Finish under the broiler if desired . Discard any remaining marinade . 
2 (1 1/2 pound) pork tenderloins , trimmed 2 tablespoons light soy sauce 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 tablespoon sherry 1 tablespoon black bean sauce 1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 1 1/2 teaspoons packed brown sugar 1 clove garlic 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 1 pinch Chinese five-spice powder  | Place tenderloins in a shallow glass dish . In a small bowl , whisk together soy sauce , hoisin sauce , sherry , black bean sauce , ginger , sugar , garlic , sesame oil , and five-spice powder . Pour marinade over pork , and turn to coat . Cover , and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or up to 24 hours . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Remove tenderloins from refrigerator while the oven preheats . Bake pork in preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes , or to desired doneness . Let stand for 10 minutes , and then slice diagonally into thin slices . 
1 pound ground pork 1 egg 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/4 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) (optional) 1 teaspoon salt 2 green onions , chopped and divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 head napa cabbage , cored and cut into chunks 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth 2 cups water , or as needed 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil  | Mix the ground pork , egg , cornstarch , 2 teaspoons of sesame oil , ginger , monosodium glutamate , salt , and half of the chopped green onions together in a bowl . Use your hands to mix until the ingredients are evenly distributed . Set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . When the oil is hot , fry the napa cabbage , stirring constantly , until cabbage begins to wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour in the chicken broth , water , and soy sauce . Bring to a boil , then lower the heat to medium . Use a spoon to form the meat mixture into 1 inch balls . Drop them into the boiling soup . When the last ball has been added , cover with a lid and simmer for 10 minutes . Taste , and adjust salt before serving . Garnish with remaining green onions and a drizzle of sesame oil . 
1/2 cup chicken broth 1/4 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into bite size pieces 2 cups snow peas 2 cups cremini mushrooms , stems discarded , caps thinly sliced 4 bunches green onions , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 large ripe but firm avocados - peeled , pitted , and cut into large chunks  | In a bowl , stir together the chicken broth , soy sauce , cornstarch , and garlic until the cornstarch is smooth , and set aside . Heat the oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering , and cook and stir the chicken until cooked through and no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes . Remove from the wok and set aside . Place the snow peas into the hot wok , and cook and stir until bright green and still crisp , about 3 minutes . Stir in the mushrooms and green onions , and toss with the snow peas in the hot oil until the mushrooms are tender and have given up their juice , about 5 minutes . Pour off excess juices , if any . Return the chicken to the wok , and stir briefly over medium heat to combine with the cooked vegetables . Stir the reserved sauce ingredients to recombine , if needed , and add to the wok . Gently stir in the avocado , and let the mixture bubble until the sauce thickens , about 3 minutes . Stir gently to coat everything in sauce , and serve . 
2 tablespoons oyster sauce 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons brown sugar 1 teaspoon potato starch 1 tablespoon water 2 pinches salt 1/4 teaspoon vegetable oil 4 heads baby bok choy 3 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons minced green onion 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (8 ounce) package sliced portobello mushrooms  | In a bowl , mix together the oyster sauce , soy sauce , and brown sugar until the sugar has dissolved . Mix the potato starch and water in a small bowl , and stir it into the oyster sauce mixture until smooth . Fill a pot with water , bring to a boil , and stir in salt and vegetable oil . Place the bok choy into the boiling water , and cook until tender , shiny , and bright green , 2 to 3 minutes . Drain the bok choy , and arrange attractively on a serving platter . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet or wok until the oil shimmers , then toss the green onion and garlic in the hot oil until fragrant , about 20 seconds ; stir in the mushrooms . Cook and stir until the mushrooms begin to shrink slightly . Sprinkle the mushrooms lightly with salt . Continue to cook the mushrooms , stirring often , until they are tender , about 5 minutes . Pour in the oyster sauce mixture , then stir until the sauce is thickened and coats the mushrooms , 30 seconds to 1 minute . Pour the thickened mushroom sauce over the bok choy ; serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 cup sliced fresh mushrooms 2 cups chopped broccoli florets 1 (8 ounce) can sliced bamboo shoots , drained 1 (8 ounce) can sliced water chestnuts , drained 1 (15 ounce) can whole straw mushrooms , drained 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut into strips 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 1 tablespoon rice wine 1/4 cup chicken broth  | Heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat until it begins to smoke . Stir in the fresh mushrooms , broccoli , bamboo shoots , water chestnuts , and straw mushrooms . Cook and stir until all the vegetables are hot , and the broccoli is tender , about 5 minutes . Remove from the wok , and set aside . Wipe out the wok . Heat the remaining tablespoon of vegetable in the wok until it begins to smoke . Stir in the garlic , and cook for a few seconds until it turns golden-brown . Add the chicken , and cook until the chicken has lightly browned on the edges , and is no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes . Stir together the cornstarch , sugar , soy sauce , oyster sauce , rice wine , and chicken broth in a small bowl . Pour over the chicken , and bring to a boil , stirring constantly . Boil for about 30 seconds until the sauce thickens and is no longer cloudy . Return the vegetables to the wok , and toss with the sauce . 
1 (15 ounce) can cream style corn 1 (14.5 ounce) can low-sodium chicken broth 1 egg , beaten 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons water  | In a saucepan , combine the cream style corn and chicken broth . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat . In a small bowl or cup , mix together the cornstarch and water ; pour into the boiling corn soup , and continue cooking for about 2 minutes , or until thickened . Gradually add the beaten egg while stirring the soup . Remove from heat and serve . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup warm water 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  | Mix together yeast , 1 teaspoon sugar , 1/4 cup flour , and 1/4 cup warm water . Allow to stand for 30 minutes . Mix in 1/2 cup warm water , flour , salt , 2 tablespoons sugar , and vegetable oil . Knead until dough surface is smooth and elastic . Roll over in a greased bowl , and let stand until triple in size , about 2 1/2 to 3 hours . Punch down dough , and spread out on a floured board . Sprinkle baking powder evenly on surface , and knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 2 parts , and place the piece you are not working with in a covered bowl . Divide each half into 12 parts . Shape each part into a ball with smooth surface up . Put each ball on a wax paper square . Let stand covered until double , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
1 cup vegetable oil 13 pounds fresh green beans , trimmed 5 tablespoons minced garlic 5 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons kosher salt 1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper 2 (8 ounce) bottles black bean sauce  | In a large wok , heat oil over medium-high heat . Stir in green beans ; cook , stirring frequently , for 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in garlic and ginger ; cook , stirring frequently , for 3 to 4 minutes . Season with salt and pepper , and then stir in black bean sauce . Continue cooking until green beans are tender . 
1 (4 pound) whole duck , dressed 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon honey 1 orange , sliced in rounds 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley , for garnish 5 green onions 1/2 cup plum jam 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons distilled white vinegar 1/4 cup finely chopped chutney  | Rinse the duck inside and out , and pat dry . Cut off tail and discard . In a small bowl , mix together the cinnamon , ginger , nutmeg , white pepper and cloves . Sprinkle one teaspoon of the mixture into the cavity of the duck . Stir one tablespoon of the soy sauce into the remaining spice mixture and rub evenly over the entire outside of the bird . Cut one of the green onions in half and tuck inside the cavity . Cover and refrigerate the bird for at least 2 hours , or overnight . Place duck breast side up on a rack in a big enough wok or pot and steam for an hour adding a little more water , if necessary , as it evaporates . Lift duck with two large spoons , and drain juices and green onion . Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place duck breast side up in a roasting pan and prick skin all over using a fork . Roast for 30 minutes in the preheated oven . While the duck is roasting , mix together the remaining 2 tablespoons of soy sauce and honey . After 30 minutes , brush the honey mixture onto the duck and return it to the oven . Turn the heat up to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C) . Roast for 5 minutes , or until the skin is richly browned . Do not allow the skin to char . Prepare the duck sauce by mixing the plum jam with the sugar , vinegar and chutney in a small serving bowl . Chop remaining green onions and place them into a separate bowl . Place whole duck onto a serving platter and garnish with orange slices and fresh parsley . Use plum sauce and onions for dipping . 
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 small head cabbage , shredded 4 ounces lean pork tenderloin , cut into thin strips 6 cups chicken broth 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 8 fresh green onions , chopped 4 ounces dry Chinese noodles  | Using a large skillet or wok heat oil over medium heat . Add cabbage and pork ; fry until pork in no longer pink inside , approximately 5 minutes . Make sure to stir your cabbage and pork while it is frying . Add chicken broth , soy sauce , ginger and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low ; simmer 10 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in onions and add noodles . Cook until noodles are tender , 2 to 4 minutes . 
14 ounces skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cut into bite-size pieces 1/2 cup oyster sauce 2 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 (8 ounce) can sliced water chestnuts , drained 1 cup snow peas 1 small head broccoli , cut into florets 3 tablespoons cornstarch 1/4 cup water  | Combine the chicken , oyster sauce , and soy sauce in a mixing bowl until the chicken is evenly coated with the sauce ; set aside . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in the garlic and onion ; cook and stir until the onion is limp , about 1 minute . Add the chicken and marinade . Cook and stir until the chicken has browned and is no longer pink , about 10 minutes . Pour in 1/2 cup of water ; season with pepper and sugar . Add the water chestnuts , snow peas , and broccoli . Cover ; boil until the vegetables are just tender , about 5 minutes . Dissolve the cornstarch in 1/4 cup of water . Stir into the boiling mixture ; cook until thick and no longer cloudy . 
2 teaspoons light soy sauce 1/8 teaspoon white sugar 2 teaspoons potato starch 1 teaspoon sesame oil ground black pepper to taste 1 pound pork loin , cut into 1-inch cubes 1 cup water 2 tablespoons white vinegar 1/4 cup ketchup 1/4 cup white sugar 1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons potato starch 1 dash red food coloring 1 egg , beaten 1 cup potato starch 2 cups peanut oil for frying 1 green bell pepper , cut into large chunks 2 cayenne peppers , sliced 4 slices canned pineapple , chopped 2 cloves garlic , sliced 2 green onions , sliced  | Whisk together the soy sauce , sugar , 2 teaspoons potato starch , sesame oil , and black pepper in a large bowl . Mix the pork into the marinade and turn until all the pork is covered . Allow to rest for 15 minutes . To make the sauce , whisk together the water , vinegar , ketchup , 1/4 cup sugar , salt , 2 teaspoons potato starch , and red food coloring in a separate bowl . Set aside . Dip the pork pieces in the beaten egg , then dredge in the 1 cup potato starch . Use your hand to press the starch onto the pork , assuring a consistent coating . Heat the peanut oil in a wok over medium-high heat to a temperature of 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Fry the pork pieces in the hot oil until crisp and light brown , 4 to 5 minutes . Remove the pork from the oil and drain , keeping the oil hot . Return the drained pork pieces to the hot oil for 30 seconds more . Remove and drain again . Pour off all but 1 tablespoon of oil from the wok . Heat 1 tablespoon of reserved oil in the wok over medium heat . Cook the green bell pepper , cayenne pepper , pineapple , garlic , and green onion in the heated oil for about 5 minutes . Add the sauce and stir until it thickens . Stir in the pork and toss until the pork is coated with sauce . Remove from heat and serve . 
2 cups peanut oil for frying 1 pound peeled and deveined large shrimp 1/4 cup cornstarch 2 large cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon white wine 1 tablespoon white vinegar 1 tablespoon ketchup 5 teaspoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup water 2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 teaspoons water 5 green onions , sliced  | Heat peanut oil in a wok to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Toss the shrimp with 1/4 cup of cornstarch to coat , then drop into the hot oil , and quickly fry until golden brown , about 45 seconds . When done , drain shrimp , and set aside . Pour all but 1 tablespoon of oil from the wok , then stir in the garlic , ginger , and cayenne pepper . Cook and stir until the garlic is fragrant and beginning to brown , about 30 seconds . Pour in the wine , vinegar , ketchup , sugar , salt , and 1/4 cup of water , and bring to a boil over high heat . Dissolve the cornstarch in 2 teaspoons of water , stir into the boiling sauce , and boil until thickened , about 1 minute . Stir the shrimp and green onions into the sauce until coated . 
1 pound raw shrimp , peeled and deveined 4 pounds ground beef 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 shallot , minced 1 bunch green onions , chopped 3 leaves napa cabbage , chopped 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon Asian (toasted) sesame oil salt and white pepper to taste 1 pinch white sugar 1 (10 ounce) package round gyoza/potsticker wrappers vegetable oil 1/4 cup water  | Place the shrimp in the work bowl of a food processor , and process until the shrimp are finely ground . Set aside in a large bowl . Working in batches , process the ground beef to a fine grind , and set aside with the shrimp . Combine the shrimp and ground beef with ginger , shallot , green onions , napa cabbage , soy sauce , sesame oil , salt and pepper , and white sugar , and mix the ingredients until thoroughly combined . To fill the pot stickers , place a wrapper on a work surface in front of you , and place a scant teaspoon of filling in the center . With a wet finger , dampen the edges of the wrapper . Fold the dough into a half-moon shape , enclosing the filling , and press and seal to remove extra air and tightly seal the edges together . It's nice to fold several small pleats in the top half of the wrapper for a traditional look before you seal in the filling . Refrigerate the filled wrappers on a parchment-lined baking sheet while you finish filling and sealing the pot stickers . Heat the oil in a large nonstick skillet with a lid over medium heat . Place pot stickers into the hot oil , flat sides down , without crowding , and let fry until the bottoms are golden brown , 1 to 2 minutes . Turn the dumplings over , and pour the water over them . Cover the pan with a lid and let the dumplings steam until the water has nearly evaporated and the dumplings have begun to fry in oil again , 5 to 7 minutes . Uncover the skillet , and let the pot stickers cook until all the water is evaporated and the wrapper has shrunk down tightly onto the filling , another 2 to 3 minutes . 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons rice wine 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 1 clove crushed garlic 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into bite size pieces 2 tablespoons sesame seeds 1 tablespoon sesame oil 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 ounces fresh mushrooms , quartered 1 green bell pepper , sliced 4 green onions , sliced diagonally into 1/2 inch pieces  | To Make Marinade : In a nonporous dish or bowl blend cornstarch with wine or sherry ; then stir in lemon juice , soy sauce , hot pepper sauce , ginger and garlic . Blend together and stir in chicken strips . Cover dish and refrigerate to marinate for 3 to 4 hours . In a wok or large skillet , place sesame seeds and dry-fry over medium heat , shaking the wok , until the seeds are a golden brown color . Remove seeds and set aside . To same wok or skillet add sesame oil and vegetable oil and heat slowly . Drain chicken , reserving marinade , and stir-fry in wok a few pieces at a time , until browned . Remove chicken with a slotted spoon and set aside . Add mushrooms and green bell pepper to same wok or skillet and stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes . Add the scallions and stir-fry 1 minute more . Return chicken to wok , together with reserved marinade , and stir over medium high heat for another 2 to 3 minutes , or until the ingredients are evenly coated with the glaze . Sprinkle toasted sesame seeds on top and serve immediately . 
4 cups vegetable oil for frying 3 eggs 1/2 cup cornstarch 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 5 dried red pepper pods 1 1/2 tablespoons rice vinegar 2 tablespoons rice wine 3 tablespoons white sugar 3 tablespoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 3 green onions , thinly sliced  | Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl until smooth . Stir in 1/2 cup of cornstarch until no lumps remain , then mix in the chicken until evenly coated in batter . In batches , carefully drop the chicken cubes into the hot oil one by one , cooking until the chicken turns golden brown and begins to float , about 3 minutes . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in the dried peppers , and cook for about 30 seconds until the color brightens . Add the chicken , and cook for a few minutes until the chicken turns a deep , golden brown . Stir the vinegar , rice wine , sugar , soy sauce , and 2 teaspoons of cornstarch together in a small bowl . Pour into the wok , and boil until the sauce thickens and is no longer cloudy , about 2 minutes . Garnish with green onions to serve . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 pound sliced fresh mushrooms 1/4 pound snow peas 1 (8 ounce) can sliced water chestnuts , drained 1/4 pound sliced bok choy salt and black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 3/4 cup skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - thinly sliced 1 teaspoon white wine 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons water  | Heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat . Stir in the mushrooms , snow peas , water chestnuts , and bok choy ; season to taste with salt and pepper . Cook and stir until the vegetables are just tender , about 5 minutes . Remove the vegetables from the wok and wipe the wok clean . Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil in the wok . Stir in the garlic and ginger ; cook a few seconds until the garlic begins to turn golden brown . Stir in the chicken and cook until the chicken is no longer pink , about 5 minutes . Add the wine , sugar , and chicken broth ; bring to a boil . Dissolve the cornstarch in the water and stir into the simmering sauce . Once the sauce returns to a simmer , stir until thick and clear , about 30 seconds . Return the vegetables to the wok and toss until hot and coated with the sauce . 
1 cup vegetable oil 13 pounds fresh green beans , trimmed 5 tablespoons minced garlic 5 tablespoons minced fresh ginger root 2 tablespoons kosher salt 1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper 2 (8 ounce) bottles black bean sauce  | In a large wok , heat oil over medium-high heat . Stir in green beans ; cook , stirring frequently , for 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in garlic and ginger ; cook , stirring frequently , for 3 to 4 minutes . Season with salt and pepper , and then stir in black bean sauce . Continue cooking until green beans are tender . 
3 cups bread flour 1 1/4 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons vegetable oil salt and pepper to taste 1 bunch green onions , finely chopped 2 teaspoons vegetable oil  | Use a fork to mix flour and boiling water in a large bowl . Knead dough into a ball . Cover bowl with plastic wrap ; let dough rest for 30 to 60 minutes . Evenly divide dough into 16 pieces . Roll each piece into a 1/4 inch thick circle . Brush each circle with oil , season with salt and pepper , and sprinkle with about 1 teaspoon of green onions . Roll up , cigar style , and pinch open ends together to form a circle . Roll each circle flat to 1/4 inch . Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a large skillet . Fry cakes until golden brown , about 2 minutes on each side . 
2 cups soy sauce 2 cups brown sugar 2 tablespoons garlic powder 5 pounds chicken wings , split and tips discarded  | Stir the soy sauce , brown sugar , and garlic powder together in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook and stir until the sugar melts completely . Remove from heat and allow to cool . Place the chicken wings in a large bowl . Pour the soy sauce mixture over the wings and toss to coat evenly . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap . Allow chicken to marinate in refrigerator overnight or 8 hours . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Pour the chicken wings and marinade into a 9x13-inch baking dish . Cover the baking dish with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until thoroughly hot , about 45 minutes . Remove the aluminum foil from the baking dish and continue baking uncovered another 15 minutes . Serve hot . 
2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water 1 pound pork tenderloin , cubed 1 lime , juiced 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 tablespoons rice vinegar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 3 teaspoons dark sesame oil 1 tablespoon peanut oil 3 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 2 green chile peppers , chopped 1/2 cup julienned carrots 1/2 cup sugar snap peas , julienned 2 teaspoons chili oil 1/4 cup chopped green onions 1/4 cup finely chopped peanuts  | In a medium bowl , combine 2 tablespoons soy sauce , 1 tablespoon cornstarch and water . Mix all together until smooth and stir in the pork cubes . Cover and refrigerate for 30 to 45 minutes . In a small bowl combine the lime juice , 1 tablespoon soy sauce , vinegar , 1 teaspoon cornstarch and sesame oil . Mix together and set aside . Remove pork and marinade from refrigerator . In a large skillet or wok heat peanut oil until hot . Stir in ginger and chile pepper and saute for 1 minute . Then stir in pork with marinade , carrots , and sugar peas and stir-fry for 6 to 8 minutes or until pork is tender . Pour in lime mixture , reduce heat and simmer until sauce thickens , about 6 to 8 minutes . Remove from heat and stir in hot chile oil , green onions and peanuts . Serve ! 
1 tablespoon yellow curry paste 1/2 cup chicken broth , divided 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 4 1/2 teaspoons light soy sauce 1 (5.6 ounce) can coconut milk 1 tablespoon canola oil 3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , sliced 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 onion , sliced 2 potatoes - peeled , halved , and sliced  | In a bowl , mash the yellow curry paste with about 2 tablespoons of chicken broth to help dissolve the paste ; whisk in remaining chicken broth , sugar , curry powder , salt , light soy sauce , and coconut milk . Set aside . Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat for about 30 seconds ; pour in the oil . Let the oil heat until shimmering , about 30 more seconds . Stir the chicken , garlic , and ginger into the hot oil ; cook and stir until the chicken has begun to brown and the garlic and ginger are fragrant , about 2 minutes . Stir in the onion and potatoes , toss all ingredients in the hot oil , and pour in the sauce mixture . Bring the sauce to a boil , reduce heat , and cover the wok . Simmer until the chicken is cooked through and the potatoes are tender , 20 to 25 minutes . 
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil 4 cloves garlic cloves , peeled and sliced 6 tablespoons black bean sauce 1 teaspoon salt 3/4 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast half - cut into cubes 1 cube chicken bouillon dissolved in 1/2 cup boiling water 1 large onion , peeled and sliced 1 bunch green onions , chopped 2 green bell pepper , diced 1 1/2 tablespoons dark soy sauce 1 teaspoon black pepper 4 teaspoons cornstarch dissolved in 3 tablespoons water 4 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat a wok over a medium heat until hot , add the toasted sesame oil and heat for about 30 seconds . Stir in garlic and black bean sauce , and season with salt . Add chicken to the wok ; cook , stirring frequently , until chicken is cooked through . Pour in dissolved chicken bouillon , cover , and cook for 6 minutes . Stir in onion , green onions , and bell pepper , and season with soy sauce and black pepper . Cover , and cook for 8 minutes . Stir in cornstarch mixture , and stir until sauce thickens . Stir in cilantro , and serve . 
1 bunch Gai Lan (Chinese broccoli) , trimmed 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1 tablespoon sesame oil 3 tablespoons hoisin sauce 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 2 cloves garlic , minced  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add the Chinese broccoli and cook uncovered until just tender , about 4 minutes . Drain and set aside . Meanwhile , whisk the sugar , cornstarch , soy sauce , vinegar , sesame oil , hoisin sauce , ginger , and garlic together in a small saucepan over medium heat until thickened and no longer cloudy , 5 to 7 minutes . Toss the broccoli in the sauce and serve . 
2 orange pekoe tea bags 1 cup boiling water 5 ice cubes 4 teaspoons sweetened condensed milk 3 teaspoons honey  | Steep the tea bags in hot water until the color turns dark red , about 3 to 5 minutes . Discard the tea bags and let the tea cool . Combine the ice cubes , sweetened condensed milk , and honey in a glass or cocktail shaker . Pour in the tea and mix well . (If the tea is still warm , the ice may melt ; add more ice if desired.) A strong , flavorful milk tea is ready for you to enjoy . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , minced 6 ounces raw small shrimp , shelled and deveined 1 quart chicken stock 8 ounces tofu , diced small 1/3 cup frozen peas , thawed 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1 tablespoon cornstarch  | Heat the oil in a large saucepan or wok over high heat . Cook the garlic and ginger until fragrant and lightly browned . Stir in the shrimp , and stir fry until cooked , then remove and set aside . Pour in the chicken stock and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium , add the tofu and peas , season with salt and pepper , then return to a simmer . Mix the cornstarch with a little water to form a thin paste . Stir the cornstarch into the soup and continue to simmer until clear and thickened , about 1 minute . Stir the shrimp back into the soup and serve . 
4 cups vegetable oil for frying 3 eggs 1/2 cup cornstarch 2 teaspoons cornstarch 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1/4 cup distilled white vinegar 1/4 cup rice vinegar 1/4 cup dry sherry 2 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons minced garlic 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 12 dried whole red chilies , or to taste 2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger , or to taste  | Heat the frying oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl until smooth . Mix in the 1/2 cup plus 2 teaspoons cornstarch until no lumps remain . Mix in the chicken until evenly coated in the batter . In batches , carefully drop the chicken cubes into the hot oil one by one , cooking until the chicken turns golden brown and begins to float , about 3 minutes . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Meanwhile , combine the sugar , white vinegar , rice vinegar , sherry , soy sauce , and garlic in a small saucepan . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat . Stir constantly until the sugar has dissolved and the sauce thickens to the consistency of light pancake syrup , about 3 minutes . Remove from the heat and keep warm . Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in the dried chiles and ginger ; cook and stir until the ginger begins to brown , about 30 seconds . Remove the chiles and ginger from the wok and stir them into the sauce . Place the fried chicken cubes into the wok and cook until very crispy and dark golden brown . Serve the chicken with the sauce . 
3 1/2 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and diced 1 head lettuce , torn into small pieces 4 green onions , sliced 4 stalks celery , sliced thin 1/2 cup walnuts , chopped 2 tablespoons sesame seeds , toasted 6 ounces Chinese noodles , heated briefly to crisp 6 tablespoons seasoned rice vinegar 4 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup peanut oil  | In a large salad bowl combine the chicken , lettuce , green onion , celery , nuts , seeds and noodles . Mix all together . Set aside . To Make Dressing : Put vinegar in a small bowl . Dissolve sugar and salt in vinegar before adding oil . Shake/Beat well . Add dressing to salad and toss to coat . Serve and enjoy ! 
4 tablespoons water 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon honey 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/4 cup sliced green onions 4 cloves garlic , minced 12 ounces cooked shrimp , tails removed  | In a bowl , stir together water , ketchup , soy sauce , cornstarch , honey , crushed red pepper , and ground ginger . Set aside . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in green onions and garlic ; cook 30 seconds . Stir in shrimp , and toss to coat with oil . Stir in sauce . Cook and stir until sauce is bubbly and thickened . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes 20 peeled and deveined large shrimp (21 to 30 per pound) 4 teaspoons soy sauce 4 teaspoons rice wine 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/2 cup vegetable oil , divided 4 cloves garlic , minced 16 dried red chile peppers , cut in half 2 teaspoons Szechuan peppercorns (optional) 1 red bell pepper , sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1/4 cup dark soy sauce 2 tablespoons rice wine 2 teaspoons white sugar 1 cup salted peanuts 4 green onions , cut into 3 inch lengths 2 dashes sesame oil , or to taste (optional)  | Combine the chicken and shrimp in a mixing bowl along with 4 teaspoons of soy sauce , 4 teaspoons rice wine , and 2 teaspoons sesame oil . Sprinkle with cornstarch , and mix until evenly combined . Set aside to marinate for 25 minutes . Heat half of the vegetable oil in a wok over high heat . Stir in the chicken and shrimp , and cook until the chicken has turned white on the outside and is still a bit pink in the center ; about 5 minutes . Remove the chicken and wipe the wok clean . Heat the remaining vegetable oil over high heat . Stir in the garlic , and cook for a few seconds until the garlic begins to turn brown . Stir in the dried chiles and Szechwan peppercorns ; cook and stir a few seconds until the peppers begin to darken . Add the red and green bell peppers , dark soy sauce , 2 tablespoons of rice wine , and 2 tablespoons of sugar . Bring to a boil , stir in the chicken , and cook until the peppers are nearly tender , and the chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes more . Stir in the peanuts and green onion until the green onion becomes limp . Stir in a few drops of sesame oil to serve . 
2 pork tenderloins 1/2 cup soy sauce 1/3 cup honey 1/3 cup ketchup 1/3 cup brown sugar 1/4 cup Chinese rice wine 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons red food coloring 1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder (optional)  | Cut pork with the grain into strips 1 1/2- to 2-inches long ; put into a large resealable plastic bag . Stir soy sauce , honey , ketchup , brown sugar , rice wine , hoisin sauce , red food coloring , and Chinese five-spice powder together in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; cook and stir until just combined and slightly warm , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour the marinade into the bag with the pork , squeeze air from the bag , and seal . Turn bag a few times to coat all pork pieces in marinade . Marinate pork in refrigerator , 2 hours to overnight . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium-high heat and lightly oil the grate . Remove pork from marinade and shake to remove excess liquid . Discard remaining marinade . Cook pork on preheated grill for 20 minutes . Put a small container of water onto the grill and continue cooking , turning the pork regularly , until cooked through , about 1 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . 
6 eggs 1 1/4 cups white sugar 2 1/2 tablespoons water 1 1/2 cups cake flour 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1 1/2 teaspoons almond extract 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting  | Arrange a large bamboo steamer or a large vegetable steamer over simmering water . Make sure it is large enough to hold the baking pan . Line a 9 inch square pan with waxed paper . Separate the eggs . Place the yolks in a large bowl along with the sugar and water . Beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until the mixture has increased about three times in volume . Whisk together the flour and the baking powder ; sift this over the egg mixture , and fold in gently . Blend in the extract . Whip the egg whites in a clean bowl to stiff , not dry , peaks . Fold into yolk base . Pour the batter into the prepared pan , and smooth out to edges . Rap the pan on the counter to get rid of large air bubbles . Place the pan into the steamer . Cover the top of the steamer with a kitchen towel , and place the lid on top ; the towel will absorb any steam that collects on top from dripping onto the cake . Steam for about 20 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean . Cool on a wire rack . Dust with confectioner's sugar . 
1 (16 ounce) package wonton wrappers 1 pound lean ground beef 1 pound shrimp - peeled , deveined and coarsely chopped 5 tablespoons soy sauce 3 tablespoons oyster sauce 1 pound bean sprouts 2 green onions 3 stalks celery , chopped 1 medium head cabbage , finely shredded 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG) 1 cup vegetable oil  | Place cabbage , bean sprouts , celery , and green onions in a large wok and stir fry over a high heat until vegetables cook down (add a little water if necessary) . Mix in shrimp , stir fry until cooked . In a large skillet , brown ground meat . Drain grease and add the meat to the vegetable and shrimp mixture . Continue to fry over a high heat ; add oyster sauce , soy sauce , garlic , and MSG . When well blended , remove mixture from heat . Place a tablespoon of the meat and seafood mixture (or more , depending on how large your wonton skins are) into the center of each wonton skin . Fold the wonton skin over to make a package of the meat mixture inside , and seal the skin closed by dipping your finger in a little water and pressing the ends together . Fry the wontons in 1/4 inch of vegetable oil until golden brown . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breasts - cooked and cubed 1 cup chicken broth 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk 1 cup sliced almonds 1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms , drained 1 (8 ounce) can water chestnuts , drained and minced 1 (5 ounce) can crispy chow mein noodles 2/3 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup diced celery (optional)  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish , combine the chicken , broth , soup , milk , almonds , mushroom pieces , water chestnuts , noodles , cheese and celery (if using) . Mix well and make sure mixture is spread evenly in the dish . Bake in preheated oven for 45 minutes . 
1 (16 ounce) package extra firm tofu 1/3 cup soy sauce 2 teaspoons Chinese black vinegar 1 teaspoon sesame oil 1 teaspoon white sugar 3 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup chopped green onions salt and pepper to taste  | Cut the tofu in half lengthwise down the top . Slice into squares 1/4 inch thick . Stir together the soy sauce , vinegar , sesame oil , and sugar in a small bowl , set aside . Heat oil in a large , nonstick pan over medium heat . Add garlic and green onions , and cook until fragrant , about 20 seconds . Brown tofu well on each side , then pour in sauce and cook until the sauce has been incorporated by the tofu , 2 to 3 minutes . Season to taste with salt and pepper . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound shredded cabbage 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon Chinese cooking wine (Shaoxing wine)  | Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the garlic , and cook for a few seconds until it begins to brown . Stir in the cabbage until it is coated in oil ; cover the wok , and cook for 1 minute . Pour in the soy sauce , and cook and stir for another minute . Increase the heat to high , and stir in the Chinese cooking wine . Cook and stir until the cabbage is tender , about 2 minutes more . 
1 large green onion 4 eggs , beaten 3/4 cup bean sprouts 3 tablespoons soy sauce , divided 2 tablespoons peanut oil , divided 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 4 teaspoons cornstarch 1 cup chicken or beef broth  | Thinly slice green onion , and reserve 1 tablespoon of the top for garnish . Stir the remaining onion into the egg along with the bean sprouts and 1 tablespoon of soy sauce . Heat 1 tablespoon of peanut oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until hot . For each pancake , drop 1/4 cup of egg mixture into the hot oil . Cook until the bottoms are set , 1 to 2 minutes , then turn over and continue cooking for another 1 to 2 minutes until cooked through . Transfer to a warm serving plate while you make the remaining pancakes . Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of peanut oil in the skillet and cook the mushrooms with the remaining 2 tablespoons of soy sauce until the mushrooms are soft , about 3 minutes . Dissolve the cornstarch in the broth , stir into the mushrooms , and cook until thickened . To serve , pour the sauce over the egg foo yung pancakes , and sprinkle with the reserved onion . 
1 tablespoon rice vinegar 1 teaspoon red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 2 tablespoons peanut oil 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 1/2 pounds fresh asparagus , trimmed and cut into 2-inch pieces 1 tablespoon sesame seeds  | Whisk together the rice vinegar , red wine vinegar , soy sauce , sugar , and mustard . Drizzle in the peanut oil and sesame oil while whisking vigorously to emulsify . Set aside . Bring a pot of lightly-salted water to a boil . Add the asparagus to the water and cook 3 to 5 minutes until just tender , but still mostly firm . Remove and rinse under cold water to stop from cooking any further . Place the asparagus in a large bowl and drizzle the dressing over the asparagus . Toss until evenly coated . Sprinkle with sesame seeds to serve . 
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti 2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons oyster sauce 2 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teaspoons fish sauce 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 1 pound uncooked medium shrimp , peeled and deveined 1 cup chopped broccoli 1/4 yellow onion , thinly sliced 3 crimini mushrooms , sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 large eggs  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook spaghetti in the boiling water until cooked through yet firm to the bite , about 12 minutes ; drain . Mix soy sauce , oyster sauce , brown sugar , fish sauce , garlic powder , and ground ginger in a bowl until the sugar dissolves . Heat oil in a large skillet or wok over medium heat ; cook and stir shrimp in hot oil until they start to change color , 1 to 2 minutes . Add broccoli , onion , and mushrooms ; cook until just beginning to soften , 3 to 5 minutes . Stir garlic through the vegetable mixture . Push the vegetables to one side of the pan . Cook the eggs in the clear space in the pan , scrambling lightly , until no longer moist , 3 to 5 minutes . Stir the cooked egg with shrimp and vegetables . Add the cooked noodles and the sauce ; cook and stir until hot and evenly mixed , about 2 minutes more . Serve immediately . 
2 pounds chicken wings 1 1/4 cups water 10 tablespoons dark soy sauce 5 tablespoons light soy sauce 1 clove crushed garlic 1 green onion , chopped 1/4 cup sesame oil 1 dash sesame oil  | Cut the chicken wings into 3 separate portions . In a large skillet , combine the chicken , water , dark soy sauce , light soy sauce , garlic and green onion . Stir together and cook for 15 minutes over medium heat . Add the 1/4 cup sesame oil and simmer for another 15 minutes over low heat . Bring mixture to a boil and add dash of sesame oil . Remove from heat , let cool and serve . 
3 pounds chicken wings 3 tablespoons salt 2 tablespoons white sugar 6 tablespoons water 6 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon gin 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1 quart vegetable oil for frying  | FOR MARINADE : Combine the salt , sugar , water , soy sauce , gin and ginger . Put mixture in a zipper style plastic bag , add chicken and marinate for 24 hours or as long as possible , turning bag frequently . In a large skillet over medium high heat fry marinated chicken wings in hot oil until golden brown , about 8 minutes each side . Ready to serve ! 
2 pounds chicken wings 1 1/4 cups water 10 tablespoons dark soy sauce 5 tablespoons light soy sauce 1 clove crushed garlic 1 green onion , chopped 1/4 cup sesame oil 1 dash sesame oil  | Cut the chicken wings into 3 separate portions . In a large skillet , combine the chicken , water , dark soy sauce , light soy sauce , garlic and green onion . Stir together and cook for 15 minutes over medium heat . Add the 1/4 cup sesame oil and simmer for another 15 minutes over low heat . Bring mixture to a boil and add dash of sesame oil . Remove from heat , let cool and serve . 
2 tablespoons cooking oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 onion , diced 8 baby corn ears , sliced 2/3 pound fresh mushrooms , sliced 1 tablespoon fish sauce 1 tablespoon light soy sauce 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 2 teaspoons cornstarch 3 tablespoons water 1 red chile pepper , sliced 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat the oil in a large skillet or wok over medium heat ; cook the garlic in the hot oil until browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Add the onion and baby corn and cook until the onion is translucent , 5 to 7 minutes . Add the mushrooms to the mixture and cook until slightly softened , about 2 minutes . Pour the fish sauce , soy sauce , and oyster sauce into the mixture and stir until incorporated . Whisk the cornstarch and water together in a small bowl until the cornstarch is dissolved into the water ; pour into the mushroom mixture . Cook and stir until thickened and glistening . Transfer to a serving dish ; garnish with the chile pepper and cilantro to serve . 
1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons tapioca flour 1/4 cup cold water 4 cups chicken broth 1/8 teaspoon ground ginger 1/8 teaspoon minced fresh garlic 2 tablespoons chopped green onion 1/4 teaspoon Asian (toasted) sesame oil (optional) 1 pinch white pepper (optional)  | Beat the egg and salt together in a bowl until well mixed . In a separate bowl , combine the tapioca flour with the cold water and stir to dissolve . Bring the chicken broth , ginger , and garlic to a full rolling boil , remove from the heat , and stir in the dissolved tapioca starch . Boil until the soup has thickened and is no longer cloudy , about 1 minute ; remove from the heat . Pour the egg into the soup in a thin line , and gently stir the egg in a figure 8 shape , making sure not to overmix the egg too much . Sprinkle the soup with the chopped onions , sesame oil , and white pepper , and serve . 
1 (.25 ounce) envelope active dry yeast 1 cup lukewarm water 4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons shortening or vegetable oil 1/2 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons sesame oil 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 green onion , thinly sliced 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 pound Asian barbequed pork , cubed 2 tablespoons light soy sauce 2 tablespoons oyster sauce 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons water  | Place the warm water in a large bowl , and sprinkle the yeast over the top . Stir in 1 cup of the flour , and mix thoroughly . Cover with a cloth , and let stand until bubbles appear , about 20 minutes . Dissolve sugar and shortening in boiling water , and allow to cool to lukewarm . Stir into the yeast mixture along with the remaining flour . When the dough becomes too stiff to stir , turn out onto a lightly floured surface , and knead until smooth , about 10 minutes . Coat a large bowl with sesame oil , and place the dough inside . Turn over to coat , and cover the bowl with a damp cloth . Let rise in a warm place until doubled in size . Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a wok over medium-high heat . Add green onions and garlic , and stir-fry for about 30 seconds . Add pork , and fry for a minute , then stir in the soy sauce , oyster sauce , and sugar . Dissolve cornstarch in 2 tablespoons of water , then stir the mixture into the pork . Cook , stirring constantly until the pork is coated with a thickened glaze . Remove to a bowl , and allow to cool . Remove the dough from the bowl , and roll it out into one long log . Slice the log into 1 inch pieces . Flatten each piece into a 3 inch circle using the palm of your hand or a rolling pin . Place 2 tablespoons of the pork filling onto the center of each circle , and gather up the edges around the filling and pinch together to close the bun . Place each bun seam side down onto a square of aluminum foil . Cover with a towel , and let rise for about 1 hour . Bring a couple inches of water to boil in a wok . Place a few buns at a time in a steamer , such as a bamboo steamer for a wok , or a fitted steam tray . Cover , and steam buns over briskly boiling water for 10 minutes . Repeat with remaining buns . 
8 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 3 cups water 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon black soy sauce 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons black tea leaves 2 pods star anise 1 (2 inch) piece cinnamon stick 1 tablespoon tangerine zest  | In a large saucepan , combine eggs and 1 teaspoon salt ; cover with cold water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer for 20 minutes . Remove from heat , drain , and cool . When cool , tap eggs with the back of a spoon to crack shells (do not remove shells) . In a large saucepan , combine 3 cups water , soy sauce , black soy sauce , salt , tea leaves , star anise , cinnamon stick , and tangerine zest . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat , cover , and simmer for 3 hours . Remove from heat , add eggs , and let steep for at least 8 hours . 
1/2 pound boneless pork loin roast 1/2 cup barbecue sauce 3 tablespoons shallots , chopped 1/3 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon dark soy sauce 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 recipe Chinese Steamed Buns  | Mix together pork , barbecue sauce , shallots , flour , chicken stock , soy sauce , oil , and sugar . Chill in refrigerator for at least 6 hours . Preheat grill for medium heat and lightly oil the grate . Cook the pork until an instant-read meat thermometer reaches 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . Allow to cool ; shred or finely chop the meat . Prepare dough for Chinese Steamed Buns (see footnote) . Shape dough into balls . Roll each out into a circle , (like won-ton wrappers) . Put 1 tablespoonful of prepared meat mixture in the center of each circle , and wrap dough around filling . Place seam-side down onto wax paper squares . Let stand until doubled , about 30 minutes . Bring water to a boil in wok , and reduce heat to medium ; the water should still be boiling . Place steam-plate on a small wire rack in the middle of the wok . Transfer as many buns on wax paper as will comfortably fit onto steam-plate , leaving 1 to 2 inches between the buns . At least 2 inches space should be left between steam-plate and the wok . Cover wok with lid . Steam buns over boiling water for 15 to 20 minutes . REMOVE LID BEFORE you turn off heat , or else water will drip back onto bun surface and produce yellowish "blisters" on bun surfaces . Continue steaming batches of buns until all are cooked . 
1/2 pound thinly sliced pork loin 1/4 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup rice wine 1 teaspoon white pepper 1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 1 teaspoon cornstarch 4 dried Chinese black mushrooms 1 (8 ounce) package dried rice vermicelli 1/4 cup vegetable oil , divided 2 eggs , beaten 1/4 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon dried small shrimp 3 carrots , cut into matchstick strips 1/2 onion , chopped 3 cups bean sprouts 4 leaves napa cabbage , thinly sliced salt to taste 3 sprigs fresh cilantro for garnish  | Place the pork into a mixing bowl and pour in the soy sauce and rice wine . Sprinkle with the white pepper , five-spice powder , and cornstarch . Mix well , then set aside to marinate . Soak the mushrooms in a bowl of cold water for 20 minutes , then pour off the water , cut off and discard the stems of the mushrooms . Slice the mushrooms thinly and reserve . Soak the rice vermicelli in a separate bowl of cold water for 10 minutes , then pour off the water and set the noodles aside . Heat 1 tablespoon of the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium heat . Pour in the eggs , and cook until firm , flipping once , to make a pancake . Remove the egg pancake , and allow to cool , then thinly slice and place into a large bowl . Heat 2 more tablespoons of the vegetable oil in the wok over high heat . Stir in the garlic and dried shrimp , and cook until the shrimp become aromatic , about 20 seconds . Next , add the pork along with the marinade , and cook until the pork is no longer pink , about 4 minutes . Stir in the carrots and onion , and cook until the carrots begin to soften , about 3 minutes . Finally , add the bean sprouts , napa cabbage , and sliced mushrooms ; cook and stir until the vegetables are tender , about 3 minutes more . Scrape the pork mixture into the bowl along with the eggs , then wipe out the wok and return it to the stove over medium-high heat . Heat the remaining vegetable oil in the wok , then stir in the drained rice vermicelli noodles . Cook and stir for a few minutes until the noodles soften , then stir in the reserved pork mixture . Scrape the mixture in to a serving bowl and garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1/2 cup white sugar 1 cup warm milk (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 tablespoon active dry yeast 4 cups bread flour 2 eggs , beaten (divided) 6 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons water 1 teaspoon sesame seeds for garnish (divided) (optional)  | Whisk the sugar and milk together in a large mixing bowl until the sugar is dissolved . Stir in the yeast , and let stand until a frothy layer forms on the milk , about 10 minutes . Stir in the flour , most of the beaten eggs (reserve about 1 tablespoon of egg in a small bowl for later) , vegetable oil , and salt , mixing well until thoroughly combined . Turn the dough out onto a well-floured work surface , and knead until smooth and elastic , about 10 minutes . The dough should be slightly sticky . Place the dough into a large oiled bowl , cover with a damp cloth or plastic wrap , place the bowl in a warm spot , and let rise until doubled , 2 to 3 hours . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper . Remove the dough from the bowl , and knead it briefly to punch down , about 1 minute . Roll the dough out into a rope , and cut it into 12 equal-sized pieces . Roll each piece into a ball , and use your fingers to flatten each ball into a disc about 5 to 6 inches in diameter . Place about 2 tablespoons of your favorite bun filling in the center of the dough circle , and bring the edges of the dough up over the filling . Pinch and twist the top together to seal in the filling . Make sure there are no open spots . Place each filled bun seam-side down on the parchment paper while you finish making the rest of the buns . Cover the filled buns with plastic wrap , and let them rise for 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Beat the 1 tablespoon of reserved beaten egg with the water to make an egg wash , and brush the top of each bun with the egg mixture . Sprinkle each bun with a few sesame seeds , and bake in the preheated oven until the tops are browned and shiny , turning the baking sheet around halfway through baking , for 20 to 30 minutes . Serve warm . 
2 tablespoons dry sherry 2 slices fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon oyster sauce 1/2 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 4 1/2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon white sugar 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce 2 tablespoons ketchup 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 1/2 pounds pork shoulder roast 1 tablespoon honey  | In bowl , stir together sherry , ginger root , oyster sauce , five-spice powder , soy sauce , white sugar , sugar , hoisin sauce , ketchup and cinnamon . Cut pork into 5x2 inch strips . Place strips flat in a shallow baking dish . Pour marinade over pork strips . Let pork marinate at least 6 hours in refrigerator . Drain , reserving marinade . Mix honey and 3 tablespoon reserved marinade in a small bowl ; set aside . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Fill a shallow roasting pan with water and place in bottom of oven . Carefully place pork strips on a roasting rack above roasting pan so all sides are exposed to heat . If you don't have a roasting rack , insert the curved end of an S-shaped hook , paper clip , or drapery hook in pork strips and hang them from the top shelf . Roast for 30 minutes . Baste pork strips with honey mixture . Roast 15 minutes and baste again . Roast 10 minutes longer or until pork strips are crisp and golden brown . Remove from oven and let cool . 
2/3 cup hoisin sauce 6 tablespoons rice vinegar 1/2 cup minced green onions 1/4 cup mushroom soy sauce 4 tablespoons minced garlic 2 tablespoons honey 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil 1 tablespoon toasted sesame seeds 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 (5 pound) boneless butterflied leg of lamb  | In a large resealable plastic bag , mix hoisin sauce , rice vinegar , green onions , mushroom soy sauce , garlic , honey , sesame oil , sesame seeds , white pepper , and black pepper . Place lamb in bag , seal , and turn to coat . Refrigerate for 8 hours , or overnight . Preheat grill for high heat . Oil the grill grate . Place lamb on the grill , and discard marinade . Cook 15 minutes on each side , to a minimum internal temperature of 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) , or to desired doneness . Transfer meat to a serving platter , and allow it to rest for 20 minutes before slicing and serving . 
4 ounces dry Chinese noodles 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth 6 shiitake mushrooms , sliced 2 green onions , chopped 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half 2 eggs  | Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Stir noodles into boiling water and cook until al dente , 8 to 10 minutes . (For a chewier texture , shock the noodles by pouring 1 cup cold water into the pot when it starts to foam , then letting it come to a boil again to finish cooking.) Drain and divide into two serving bowls . Meanwhile , bring chicken broth to boil in a medium saucepan with mushrooms and green onions . Cut chicken into bite-sized pieces and stir into boiling broth . When broth returns to a boil , crack eggs into broth . Continue to cook until chicken is no longer pink and eggs are cooked , about 10 minutes . Pour the chicken soup over the noodles in the bowls and serve immediately . 
4 cups seasoned chicken broth 1/2 cup frozen green peas 1 egg , beaten  | Bring chicken broth and peas to a boil in a large saucepan . Slowly add egg to the boiling broth , stirring constantly . Serve hot , garnished with chopped green onions . 
1/2 cup hoisin sauce 1/4 cup jellied cranberry sauce 3 tablespoons reduced sodium soy sauce 2 tablespoons white wine 2 tablespoons honey 1/2 teaspoon red food coloring 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 1/4 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder 4 pounds pork spareribs , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 cups water  | In a large bowl , blend hoisin sauce , cranberry sauce , soy sauce , white wine , honey , and red food coloring . Mix in garlic salt and Chinese five-spice powder . Place ribs in the mixture . Cover , and marinate in the refrigerator at least 1 hour . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place water in the bottom of a large roasting pan . Arrange ribs on pan rack , and cook 30 minutes in the preheated oven . Cover with remaining sauce mixture , and continue cooking 30 minutes , to an internal temperature of 160 degrees F (70 degrees C) . 
4 cups vegetable broth 1 (12 ounce) package silken tofu , diced 2 green onions , chopped 1 eggs , beaten 1 portobello mushroom , halved and sliced 2 cups chopped cabbage 1 tablespoon Thai chile sauce 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon citric acid powder (optional)  | Measure broth into a saucepan , and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat . Add tofu and green onions . Slowly drizzle in the beaten egg to make long strands of egg . Add mushrooms and cabbage , and simmer for 5 minutes . Remove from heat , and season with chili sauce , vinegar and soy sauce . Stir in citric acid if using . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into chunks 1/2 cup sesame oil 10 slices fresh ginger 2 cloves garlic , sliced 1/2 cup dry sherry 1/3 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup water 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup fresh Thai basil leaves 3 dried whole red chilies  | Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add chicken pieces , and cook until lightly browned on all sides , about 5 minutes . Remove chicken from skillet and set aside . Heat sesame oil in skillet , then add ginger and garlic . Cook and stir until the ginger begins to brown , about 30 seconds . Stir in the reserved chicken , sherry , soy sauce , water , and sugar . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer until there is only 1/4 cup of liquid left in the skillet , about 20 minutes . Stir in the basil and chiles , and increase heat to medium ; continue cooking until the liquid is almost gone . 
1 teaspoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon cold water 1/2 pound ground pork 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1 (16 ounce) package firm tofu , cut into 1 inch pieces 5 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons hot bean sauce 1 teaspoon white sugar 3 green onions , chopped 1 teaspoon sesame oil  | Mix cornstarch and water in a small bowl ; set aside . Brown ground pork in a small skillet over medium-high heat , about 5 minutes . Drain fat . Heat the vegetable oil over medium-high heat in a large skillet or wok . Cook the garlic and ginger root in the oil until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir in tofu and cook for 2 minutes . Season with the soy sauce , hot bean sauce , and sugar ; stir to combine . Stir in the cooked pork and green onion . Sprinkle with the cornstarch and water mixture ; cook and stir until thickened , about 2 minutes . Stir the sesame oil into the thickened mabo tofu . 
2 tablespoons canola oil 10 cloves garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1 (8 ounce) can sliced water chestnuts , drained 1 cup snow peas 1 cup small white button mushrooms 1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 pound peeled and deveined jumbo shrimp 1/2 cup chicken broth 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 2 tablespoons fish sauce 2 tablespoons dry sherry 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water  | Heat oil in wok or large skillet until very hot . Cook and stir garlic and ginger in the hot oil until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add the water chestnuts , snow peas , mushrooms , red pepper flakes , salt , pepper , and shrimp to the pan . Cook , stirring , until shrimp turns pink , 2 to 3 minutes . Combine the chicken broth , rice vinegar , fish sauce , and dry sherry in a small bowl . Pour into the shrimp mixture ; cook and stir briefly to combine . Combine the cornstarch and water and stir into the wok . Stir until sauce has thickened , about 2 minutes . 
1 pound red snapper fillets 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil 2 shiitake mushrooms , thinly sliced 1 tomato , quartered 1/2 fresh red chile pepper , seeded and chopped 2 sprigs cilantro , finely chopped  | Bring about 1 1/2 inches of water to boil in a steamer fitted with a basket large enough for the snapper to lie flat . Season snapper with salt and pepper , and place in the steamer basket . Top fish with ginger , and drizzle with soy sauce and sesame oil . Place shiitake mushrooms , tomato , and red chile pepper in the steamer basket . Steam fish 15 minutes , or until easily flaked with a fork . Sprinkle with cilantro . 
