1 cup all-purpose flour 5 eggs 1/4 cup milk 3/4 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt 6 tablespoons unsalted butter , softened 1/4 cup sliced almonds 2 1/2 cups pastry cream 1 cup heavy cream , chilled 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place a small pan containing about 2-3 cups of hot water onto the bottom of your oven ( directly onto the bottom of the oven) to generate steam . Lightly grease a large baking sheet with shortening and then dust lightly with flour . Use a 10 inch pan as a template and draw a 10 inch circle onto the flour dusted sheet using a toothpick . Set aside . Place the 4 eggs into a small measuring cup and mix with a fork to combine , set aside . Combine the milk , water , salt and butter in a saucepan over medium heat . When it comes to a full boil , add the flour all at once and stir to make a paste . Continue to stir over the heat for about 40 seconds until the paste dries a little . Remove from heat and place paste into a mixing bowl . Let cool about 4 minutes . With a mixer on low , mix the paste and slowly add the beaten eggs . Mix slowly but thoroughly until all of the eggs have been added . Place the paste into a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2 inch round decorating tip . Pipe the paste out onto the sheet pan following the 10 inch ring you outlined . Pipe a second ring around the inside next to this ring . Finally , pipe another ring on top of these two rings . Lightly paint the set of rings with the remaining 1 beaten egg and press the sliced almonds into the paste . Place in the oven on the lowest shelf and bake at 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) for 20 minutes . Reduce the temperature to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) and bake about 12 minutes more or until brown . Remove form the oven and using a long serrated knife slice off the top half of the puffed ring . Remove any bits of raw dough on the inside of the ring . Replace the top and place back in the oven to crisp the dough , about 5 more minutes . Cool on a rack . To Make The Filling : Whip the pastry cream until smooth . Place the heavy cream into a bowl along with the vanilla and beat on high until soft peaks are formed . Add in the confectioners' sugar and beat a little more . Fold the pastry cream in with the whipped cream and transfer to a piping bag fitted with a star tip . Pipe the cream mixture into the ring and then replace the top . If you wish , sprinkle with additional powdered sugar . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 1 teaspoon butter 2 1/2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 3 large cloves garlic , chopped 4 (4 ounce) skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , pounded flat 1/3 cup chicken stock 1 large shallot , chopped 2 cups cremini mushrooms , chopped 1/3 cup chicken stock 1/4 teaspoon herbes de Provence , crumbled 1 1/2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 slices provolone cheese , halved  | Heat olive oil and butter in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat . Mix 2 1/2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar , Dijon mustard , and garlic in a bowl and stir chicken breast halves into the mixture to coat . Transfer chicken with marinade into the skillet and cook , turning occasionally , until chicken is no longer pink inside , 5 to 8 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a platter and keep warm . Pour 1/3 cup chicken stock into skillet and stir to dissolve browned bits of food from the skillet . Cook and stir shallot and mushrooms until mushrooms are tender , about 5 minutes . Stir in 1/3 cup chicken stock , herbes de Provence , and 1 1/2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar . Cook , stirring occasionally , until mushrooms are deep brown in color , about 2 minutes . Return chicken breasts to pan and top each with 1/2 slice of provolone cheese . Cover skillet and let cheese melt ; serve with mushrooms . 
4 russet potatoes , sliced into 1/4 inch slices 1 onion , sliced into rings salt and pepper to taste 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Butter a 1 quart casserole dish . Layer 1/2 of the potatoes into bottom of the prepared casserole dish . Top with the onion slices , and add the remaining potatoes . Season with salt and pepper to taste . In a medium-size saucepan , melt butter over medium heat . Mix in the flour and salt , and stir constantly with a whisk for one minute . Stir in milk . Cook until mixture has thickened . Stir in cheese all at once , and continue stirring until melted , about 30 to 60 seconds . Pour cheese over the potatoes , and cover the dish with aluminum foil . Bake 1 1/2 hours in the preheated oven . 
1 recipe pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 6 slices bacon 1 onion , sliced 3 eggs , beaten 1 1/2 cups milk 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups shredded Swiss cheese 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Line pastry shell with foil . Bake in oven for 8 minutes . Remove foil and bake for an additional 5 minutes , or until crust is set and dry . Remove from oven and turn down temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . In a large skillet , cook bacon until crisp . Drain and reserve 2 tablespoons of drippings . Crumble the bacon and set aside . Cook onion in skillet with reserved drippings ; cook until onion is tender and then drain . In a large bowl , mix together milk , salt and eggs . Stir in bacon and onion . In a separate bowl , toss cheese and flour together , then add to egg mixture . Be sure to mix well . Pour egg mixture into pie crust . Bake in preheated oven for 35 to 40 minutes , or until knife inserted in center of quiche comes out clean . If necessary , cover edge of crust with foil while baking to prevent burning or overbrowning . Let stand for 10 minutes before serving . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 1 teaspoon butter 2 1/2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 3 large cloves garlic , chopped 4 (4 ounce) skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , pounded flat 1/3 cup chicken stock 1 large shallot , chopped 2 cups cremini mushrooms , chopped 1/3 cup chicken stock 1/4 teaspoon herbes de Provence , crumbled 1 1/2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 slices provolone cheese , halved  | Heat olive oil and butter in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat . Mix 2 1/2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar , Dijon mustard , and garlic in a bowl and stir chicken breast halves into the mixture to coat . Transfer chicken with marinade into the skillet and cook , turning occasionally , until chicken is no longer pink inside , 5 to 8 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a platter and keep warm . Pour 1/3 cup chicken stock into skillet and stir to dissolve browned bits of food from the skillet . Cook and stir shallot and mushrooms until mushrooms are tender , about 5 minutes . Stir in 1/3 cup chicken stock , herbes de Provence , and 1 1/2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar . Cook , stirring occasionally , until mushrooms are deep brown in color , about 2 minutes . Return chicken breasts to pan and top each with 1/2 slice of provolone cheese . Cover skillet and let cheese melt ; serve with mushrooms . 
1 clove garlic , halved 2 pounds potatoes , peeled and thinly sliced 2 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream 2 1/4 cups freshly grated Comte cheese salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Rub the cut sides of the garlic over the bottom and sides of an 8-inch baking dish . Spread a layer of potato slices in the bottom of dish . Pour in a third of the heavy cream ; sprinkle a third of the Comte cheese on top . Season with salt and black pepper . Repeat layers twice more , ending with layers of heavy cream and Comte cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until potatoes are tender and cheese is golden brown , about 1 hour . 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 cups unsalted butter , at room temperature 4 cups all-purpose flour , divided 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sugar 2 (.25 ounce) packages active dry yeast 1/4 cup lukewarm water 1 cup milk 1/2 cup heavy cream 1 egg 1 tablespoon water  | Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of flour over the butter and mix it together with your hands in a mixing bowl or on a work surface . Transfer the butter to a length of foil or parchment paper and pat it into a 6 inch square . Fold up the foil to make a packet and refrigerate until chilled , about 2 hours . Combine 2 cups of the flour with the salt and sugar in a mixing bowl . Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm water (100 degrees F/38 degrees C) and set aside until frothy , about 10 minutes . Meanwhile , warm the milk and the heavy cream to lukewarm . Add the yeast , milk , and cream to the flour mixture and stir well . The dough will have a batter-like consistency . Stir in the remaining 2 cups of flour 1/4 cup at a time to form a soft dough . It should no longer be sticky . Turn the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth , about 5 minutes . Place the dough in a mixing bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Refrigerate for 1 hour . To begin the rolling and folding process , both the butter and the dough should be at a cool room temperature . [See Cook's Note.] Place the dough on a floured surface and roll it into a 10-inch square . Set the block of butter diagonally on the square dough . Bring each point of dough to the center of the butter square ; the edges of the dough should overlap . Pinch the edges together to seal . Starting from the center of the square and working outward , use a rolling pin to roll the dough out into a rectangle . The butter should be pliable enough to roll smoothly with the dough ; if it's too soft and starts to ooze out the corners , wrap the dough in plastic and refrigerate before proceeding . Roll the dough into a long rectangle , approximately 8 by 18 inches . Fold the length of dough into thirds , like a business letter . If the dough is still cool , you can continue with another fold . Otherwise , wrap it in plastic and refrigerate for 45 minutes to 1 hour . Remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it warm up for about 10 minutes before you begin rolling it out again . Position the dough so that the open ends are at 12 and 6 o'clock . Roll the dough into a rectangle , working from the center of the dough and pressing outwards . Reposition the dough as necessary to fit your work space . You should have a long rectangle for the "book fold." Fold both ends of the dough into the middle ; the ends don't have to be touching , but should be close . Fold the already-folded dough in half ; it will look like a thick book . Wrap the dough well with plastic and refrigerate for 1 to 2 hours . Remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it rest at room temperature for about 20 minutes . Roll the dough into a rectangle again and fold it into thirds , like a business letter . Wrap it in plastic and refrigerate for 4-6 hours or overnight . To shape the croissants , roll the dough into a 10- by 38-inch rectangle on a lightly floured work surface . It should be about 1/4 inch thick . Use a pizza wheel or sharp paring knife to trim the edges of the dough . Divide the rectangle in half so that you have two 5-inch wide strips of dough . Use a clean yardstick to mark each strip into triangles that are 5 inches wide at their bases . Cut the triangles and place them onto parchment-lined baking sheets . Chill for 15 to 20 minutes , if necessary . Starting at the base of the triangle , roll the dough up into a log ; the tip of the triangle should be under the body of the croissant to prevent it from unraveling . Bend in the corners to form the traditional crescent shape . Repeat with the remaining dough . Arrange the croissants on the parchment-lined baking sheets and allow to rise until doubled in size , about 1 to 2 hours . Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Beat the egg with the tablespoon of water to make the egg wash . Brush the croissants with egg wash and bake in the preheated oven until deep brown , 22 to 25 minutes . Cool on a rack before serving . 
1/2 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 2 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup white sugar 1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 5 egg yolks 4 tablespoons white sugar  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Place about 2 tablespoons of the chocolate chips into each of four 6 ounce ramekins . Place them in the microwave , and heat on full power for 30 second intervals . Stir , and continue heating until chocolate has melted . Spread to cover the sides and bottom of each ramekin . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Meanwhile , in a saucepan , whisk together the cream , 1/4 cup sugar , and salt . Set over medium heat , and warm until steam rises from the surface . Then in a separate bowl , whisk together the egg yolks and vanilla . When the cream is hot , ladle a little bit into the egg yolks while whisking quickly . Ladle in a bit more to bring the yolks up to a high temperature without scrambling them . Whisk the yolk mixture into the rest of the cream . Ladle into the chocolate lined ramekins . Place a towel in the bottom of a baking dish , and place the filled ramekins on top of the towel . Place in the oven , and pour boiling water carefully into the baking dish until it comes half way up the sides of the ramekins . Cover the dish loosely with aluminum foil . Bake for 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven , just until the custard is set . Remove ramekins from the dish , and refrigerate for 4 to 6 hours . Before serving , sprinkle 1 tablespoon of sugar over the top of each creme brulee . Use a kitchen torch or your oven's broiler to caramelize the sugar . It may take 2 to 3 minutes in the broiler . Serve immediately . 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 pounds cubed stew meat 4 tablespoons butter 1 onion , chopped 2 carrots , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 2 cups red wine 1 bay leaf 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1 (6 ounce) can sliced mushrooms 1 (16 ounce) can canned onions  | In a small bowl , combine the flour , salt and ground black pepper . Coat the beef cubes with this mixture . Melt the butter or margarine in a large skillet over medium high heat . Add the meat and brown well on all sides . Pour this into a 2 quart casserole dish . Return the skillet to the heat and add the onion , carrots and garlic to it . Saute for 5 to 10 minutes , or until onion is tender . add the wine , bay leaf , parsley , thyme , and liquid from the mushrooms . Pour over meat . Bake , covered , at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 2 1/2 hours . Remove cover , add canned onions and mushroom crowns , and bake for 30 more minutes . 
2 cups heavy cream 3 tablespoons cultured buttermilk  | Combine cream and buttermilk in a glass jar . Cover tightly with cheesecloth (or any breathable material) and let sit at room temperature (70 to 75 degrees F (21 to 24 degrees C)) for 24 hours . Stir , screw on lid , and refrigerate for 24 hours before using . 
4 onions , chopped 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 3 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 1 1/4 cups water 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme 1 cup white wine 1 French baguette , cut into 1/2 inch slices 8 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a large pot over medium heat , saute the onions in the butter or margarine for 10 minutes , or until onions are tender . Stir in the flour , ground black pepper and the sugar to form a pasty mixture . Now add the beef broth , water , parsley and thyme and simmer for 10 minutes , Then add the wine and simmer for 10 more minutes . Preheat oven to broil . Fill individual oven safe bowls 3/4 full with the soup . Place a slice of bread on top of the soup and cover with the cheese . Place bowls in the oven . Broil in the oven until the cheese is melted and bubbly 
6 bone-in , skin-on chicken thighs 1 pinch kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 8 ounces bacon , sliced crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces 10 large button mushrooms , quartered 1/2 large yellow onion , diced 2 shallots , sliced 2 teaspoons all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons butter 1 1/2 cups red wine 6 sprigs fresh thyme 1 cup chicken broth  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Season chicken thighs all over with salt and black pepper . Place bacon in a large , oven-proof skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Transfer bacon with a slotted spoon to a paper-towel lined plate , leaving drippings in the skillet . Increase heat to high and place chicken , skin-side down , into skillet . Cook in hot skillet until browned , 2 to 4 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a plate ; drain and discard all but 1 tablespoon drippings from the skillet . Lower heat to medium-high ; saute mushrooms , onion , and shallots with a pinch of salt in the hot skillet until golden and caramelized , 7 to 12 minutes . Stir flour and butter into vegetable mixture until completely incorporated , about 1 minute . Pour red wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Stir bacon and thyme into red wine mixture ; simmer until wine is about 1/3 reduced , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour chicken broth into wine mixture and set chicken thighs into skillet ; bring wine and stock to a simmer . Cook chicken in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Spoon pan juices over the chicken and continue cooking until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Transfer chicken to a platter . Place skillet over high heat and reduce pan juices , skimming fat off the top as necessary , until sauce thickens slightly , about 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper ; remove and discard thyme . Pour sauce over chicken . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 2 eggs 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter , melted  | In a large mixing bowl , whisk together the flour and the eggs . Gradually add in the milk and water , stirring to combine . Add the salt and butter ; beat until smooth . Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat . Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle , using approximately 1/4 cup for each crepe . Tilt the pan with a circular motion so that the batter coats the surface evenly . Cook the crepe for about 2 minutes , until the bottom is light brown . Loosen with a spatula , turn and cook the other side . Serve hot . 
1 pound chicken livers , trimmed 1 cup milk 8 tablespoons cold unsalted butter , divided 1 small yellow onion , chopped 1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns , divided 2 cloves garlic , smashed 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar 1 teaspoon fresh thyme 2 bay leaves salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 teaspoons Scotch whiskey  | Combine chicken livers and milk in a bowl . Let soak in the refrigerator , about 2 hours . Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Add onion ; cook and stir until soft , about 5 minutes . Add 1 1/2 teaspoon black peppercorns , garlic , red pepper flakes , and thyme ; cook and stir until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Remove chicken livers from the milk with a slotted spoon ; add to the saucepan with balsamic vinegar and bay leaves . Season with salt and pepper . Cook until chicken livers are tender and no longer pink , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove from heat and cool slightly , 5 to 10 minutes . Transfer chicken liver mixture to a food processor . Add remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons black peppercorns and Scotch ; blend until smooth . Add remaining 6 tablespoons of butter and pulse until fully incorporated into the mixture . Divide blended mixture evenly among 6 porcelain ramekins . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm , about 6 hours . 
3 fresh eggs 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon cold water 2 tablespoons unsalted butter , divided 1 pinch cayenne or white pepper to taste (optional)  | Whisk eggs , salt , and water together in a mixing bowl . Whisk until mixture is very liquid and whites are completely blended in , 1 or 2 minutes . Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons butter in a 9- or 10-inch non-stick skillet over medium-high heat . As soon as butter melts and before it starts to sizzle , pour in the whisked eggs . Stir in a circular pattern with a heat-proof spatula , lifting and "scrambling" eggs , shaking pan to keep leveling out the mixture , and scraping down the sides . Continue stirring until shaking the pan no longer levels the eggs . Reduce heat to low . Using the spatula , smooth the surface of the eggs to move runny eggs to less runny spots , working toward an even thickness . As soon as surface is wet but not runny , remove from heat . Starting at the handle side of the pan , use the spatula to begin rolling the omelette into a cylinder shape , about 3 rolls until omelette is about 2 inches from opposite side of pan . Use spatula to fold the last flap of egg over the top of the cylinder leaving the seam side up . Add cubes of the remaining 1/2 tablespoon butter to pan . Gently push the butter as it melts under the omelette . Slide omelette to edge of pan . Flip onto a plate with the seam side down . Even out the shape , if necessary . You can tuck in the ends , if you like . Brush surface with a bit more butter . Dust with cayenne pepper . 
Stew : 1 tablespoon coarse sea salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon garlic salt 2 pork shanks 2 tablespoons olive oil water to cover 1 large onion , cut into chunks 1 stalk celery , coarsely chopped Meatballs : 1 1/2 pounds ground pork 1 small onion , finely chopped 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon mustard powder 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 2/3 cup toasted flour 2 tablespoons olive oil  | Mix sea salt , 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon , 1/4 teaspoon cloves , 1/4 teaspoon black pepper , nutmeg , and garlic salt together in a bowl . Rub salt mixture all over pork shanks . Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan . Cook pork shanks in the hot oil until browned , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Pour in enough water to cover the shanks . Stir in coarsely chopped onion and celery . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat and simmer until pork can be easily removed from the bones , 2 to 3 hours . Transfer pork shanks to a cutting board ; shred pork . Strain cooking liquid , discarding bones , onion , and celery . Pour strained liquid back into the saucepan . Stir in shredded pork . Mix ground pork , finely chopped onion , parsley , 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon , 1/4 teaspoon cloves , ginger , mustard powder , salt , and 1/4 teaspoon pepper together in a large bowl . Shape into balls . Pour toasted flour into a shallow dish . Roll meatballs in toasted flour . Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook meatballs in batches until browned , about 1 minute per side . Stir browned meatballs into the shredded pork stew . Simmer , stirring in leftover toasted flour , until meatballs are no longer pink in the center and stew is thick , about 30 minutes . 
1 (3 to 3 1/2 pound) whole chicken 12 pearl onions 1/2 cup water 2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 4 large mushrooms , cleaned and quartered 1/3 cup finely chopped onion 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 1/2 cups dry and robust red wine (such as Syrah or Grenache) 2 bay leaves 1 sprig thyme , leaves picked 3/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 2 tablespoons red wine 1 teaspoon potato starch 4 slices bread , crusts removed 2 teaspoons canola oil 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley  | Cut wings from the chicken , cutting at the joints into 3 pieces . Cut the remaining chicken into 4 pieces , 2 breasts and 2 legs . Remove skin and bones from the breasts . Set breasts aside with the 4 meatier wing pieces . Pull of skin from the chicken legs and remove tips from the drumsticks . Cut down each side of the thigh bone and slide your knife under the bone to separate meat from it . Holding the thigh bone , cut all around the joint at the knee and pull out the bones . Add the legs to the breasts and wings . Combine pearl onions , water , 1 tablespoon olive oil , and sugar in a large saucepan ; bring to a boil and cook until water is evaporated and onions begin to fry , 2 to 4 minutes . Continue cooking and stirring , shaking the pan occasionally , until onions are lightly browned and glazed on all sides , 5 to 7 minutes . Add mushrooms ; cook and stir for 1 minute . Remove from heat and cover . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; add chicken wings and cook , stirring frequently , until lightly browned on all sides , 2 to 3 minutes . Add the legs ; cook and stir until browned , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Add breasts ; cook and stir until browned , 2 minutes per side . Transfer chicken pieces to a plate . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place onion in the same skillet used for the chicken ; cook and stir for 1 minute . Add garlic ; cook until fragrant , about 10 seconds . Add 1 1/2 cups red wine , bay leaves , thyme , salt , and pepper ; bring to a boil . Return legs and wings to the skillet ; cover and simmer gently for 5 minutes . Add chicken breasts and simmer gently until chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 6 minutes . Stir 2 tablespoons red wine and potato starch together in a bowl until dissolved ; stir into chicken mixture until sauce is thickened , 2 to 3 minutes . Add pearl onions and mushrooms with their juices ; keep warm . Cut each slice of bread diagonally in half to form 2 triangles . Trim each triangle into a heart shape . Spread canola oil onto a baking sheet and press bread hearts into the oil so they are moistened on both sides . Bake in the preheated oven until croutons are browned , 8 to 10 minutes . Dip the tip of each crouton into the sauce ; press into parsley until coated . Cut chicken breasts and legs in half . Serve 1 breast piece , 1 drumstick or thigh , and 1 wing per person with 2 croutons and spoonfuls of sauce and vegetables . Sprinkle remaining parsley over chicken . 
Bouillabaisse : 1/2 cup coarsely chopped onion 1/4 cup coarsely chopped celery 1/4 cup coarsely chopped carrot 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon coarsely chopped garlic 1 teaspoon lemon zest 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon saffron threads 1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds 1/4 teaspoon herbes de Provence 4 chicken thighs , skinned and trimmed of excess fat 5 Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and halved 1/2 (14 ounce) can diced tomatoes 3/4 cup water 1/2 cup dry white wine 10 ounces kielbasa sausage , cut into 4 pieces 1 tablespoon chopped fresh tarragon 2 teaspoons anise-flavored liqueur (such as Pernod®) (optional) Rouille : 2 large cloves garlic , peeled 1/4 teaspoon paprika 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 egg yolk 1/2 cup olive oil salt to taste (optional)  | Combine onion , celery , carrot , 1 tablespoon olive oil , chopped garlic , lemon zest , 3/4 teaspoon salt , pepper , saffron , fennel seeds , and herbes de Provence in a bowl ; add chicken and turn to coat . Cover bowl and refrigerate until flavors combine , at least 15 minutes . Transfer chicken mixture to a stainless steel pot ; add potatoes , tomatoes , water , and white wine . Cover and bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and simmer for 25 minutes . Add sausage and cook for 5 minutes . Stir tarragon and liqueur into pot . Remove half of a cooked potato and 1/4 cup liquid from the pot and place in a food processor ; add peeled garlic , paprika , and cayenne pepper . Process until smooth , about 10 seconds . Add egg yolk and keep processor running ; pour in 1/2 cup olive oil slowly until incorporated and rouille is smooth . Season with salt . Serve bouillabaisse in warmed soup plates with a spoonful of rouille drizzled on top . 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons white sugar 3 eggs 3 tablespoons butter , melted 1/4 cup milk 2 tablespoons milk 1 squeeze lemon juice 2 cups fresh raspberries 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar , or to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Whisk flour and 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar together in a bowl . Whisk in eggs and butter . Add 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk and lemon juice ; whisk until batter is very smooth , about 3 minutes . Pour batter into a 9-inch oval or round baking dish . Scatter raspberries on top . Bake in the preheated oven until puffy and golden , about 30 minutes . Let cool , about 15 minutes . Dust with confectioners' sugar . 
1 (3 pound) leg of lamb 6 cloves garlic , peeled 2 tablespoons butter , softened salt and ground black pepper to taste 4 (14 ounce) cans cannellini beans , drained and rinsed 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place leg of lamb in a large baking dish . Prick in 6 places with a sharp knife ; insert garlic cloves into the slits . Brush butter over lamb . Season with salt and pepper . Roast in the preheated oven , basting regularly with juices , for 25 minutes . Arrange cannellini beans around the lamb , mixing to coat with juices . Continue roasting until beans are warmed through and the internal temperature of the lamb reaches 160 degrees F (71 degrees C) for medium , about 15 minutes more . Let lamb rest for 10 minutes before slicing . Garnish with chopped parsley and serve beans on the side . 
6 duck legs salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1 onion , sliced 1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 oranges , zested and juiced 7 tablespoons water  | Season duck legs with salt and pepper . Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add duck legs ; cook until skin starts to brown , about 4 minutes per side . Transfer to a large plate . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in the same skillet over medium heat . Add onion ; cook and stir until tender , about 5 minutes . Stir in cornstarch until dissolved . Return duck legs to the skillet . Pour in orange juice and water . Simmer , covered , until duck legs are very tender , about 40 minutes . Uncover skillet and simmer until sauce thickens , about 10 minutes . Pour sauce into a bowl and stir in zest of 1 orange . Place duck legs on serving plates . Spoon sauce on top . Garnish with remaining orange zest . 
12 ounces sliced bacon , cut crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces 4 (5 ounce) balls prepared pizza dough 1 large yellow onion , sliced 1 cup fromage blanc (French-style fresh cheese) 1/4 cup creme fraiche 1 pinch ground nutmeg salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch cayenne pepper  | Place bacon in a skillet and cook over medium-high heat until cooked but not crisp and fat has rendered out , about 8 minutes . Drain in a strainer ; reserve the fat . Place skillet back over medium heat . Add sliced onions . Cook briefly just until they lose their raw edge and soften up slightly , 3 to 5 minutes . Add a teaspoon or 2 of bacon fat if pan seems too dry . Remove skillet from heat and allow to cool to room temperature . Mix fromage blanc , creme fraiche , nutmeg , salt , black pepper , and cayenne pepper together in a mixing bowl . Place 1 ball of pizza dough on a well-floured surface . Flatten and roll out to a 10- or 12-inch thin circle . Transfer to a cold cast iron pan . Heat over medium-high heat to pre-cook the bottom of the crust . As dough heats and bubbles appear , deflate them with the tines of a fork so crust ends up thin and crisp (not chewy) . When bottom is nicely browned and just about to start getting charred , 5 to 7 minutes , remove from heat . Repeat with remaining dough . Spread a generous amount of cheese mixture over the crust . Top evenly with some onions and then the bacon . Broil 5 or 6 minutes until edges are browned and starting to lift . Repeat for remaining tartes . 
6 potatoes , thinly sliced 1 large onion , cut into matchstick-size pieces 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 cup water 3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1/2 cup milk , or more as needed 1/4 cup Dijon-mayonnaise blend (such as Hellman's®)  | Combine potatoes and onion in a microwave-safe bowl . Sprinkle garlic powder over mixture and add water . Cover bowl and heat in microwave on high until potatoes are tender , 8 to 10 minutes . Combine butter and flour in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook , stirring constantly , until butter is melted , 2 to 3 minutes . Slowly add milk and cook , stirring constantly , until mixture is the consistency of gravy , 2 to 3 minutes . Reduce heat ; stir in Dijon-mayonnaise blend and mix well . Remove from heat and cover . Drain water from potatoes and pour gravy mixture over potatoes ; stir to coat . Cover bowl and microwave on medium until flavors combine , 3 to 5 minutes . Let stand for 5 minutes before serving . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 slices Swiss cheese 4 slices cooked ham 1/2 cup seasoned bread crumbs  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat a 7x11 inch baking dish with nonstick cooking spray . Pound chicken breasts to 1/4 inch thickness . Sprinkle each piece of chicken on both sides with salt and pepper . Place 1 cheese slice and 1 ham slice on top of each breast . Roll up each breast , and secure with a toothpick . Place in baking dish , and sprinkle chicken evenly with bread crumbs . Bake for 30 to 35 minutes , or until chicken is no longer pink . Remove from oven , and place 1/2 cheese slice on top of each breast . Return to oven for 3 to 5 minutes , or until cheese has melted . Remove toothpicks , and serve immediately . 
3 tablespoons butter 3 onions , thinly sliced 2 tablespoons water 2 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 6 1/3 cups chicken stock 1/3 cup white wine 1 tablespoon white wine 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 (1/2 inch) slices French baguette 1/2 cup shredded Gruyère cheese  | Melt butter in a large saucepan over low heat . Add onions ; cook , stirring constantly , until golden , 15 to 30 minutes . Add water ; cover and cook until onions are very tender , about 15 minutes . Sprinkle flour into the saucepan ; cook , stirring constantly , until onions are coated , about 5 minutes . Pour in chicken stock and 1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon white wine ; season with salt and pepper . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat and simmer gently until flavors combine , about 20 minutes . Set oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source and preheat the oven's broiler . Toast baguette slices until very crisp , 3 to 5 minutes . Divide slices among 6 oven-safe soup bowls . Ladle soup on top . Sprinkle Gruyère cheese over each bowl . Transfer bowls to the preheated oven ; broil until cheese is melted and bubbly , 3 to 5 minutes . 
2 tablespoons butter , divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 small shallot , minced 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 portobello mushroom caps 1/2 pound haricots verts (French green beans) , trimmed 1/4 cup Sauvignon blanc 3 slices Paris ham , or more to taste 1/2 cup shredded Gruyère cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Heat 1 tablespoon butter and oil in an oven-proof skillet over medium heat until butter is melted . Add shallot and garlic ; cook and stir until shallot is wilted , about 5 minutes . Place mushrooms , gill side up , into the skillet . Cook , flipping once , until liquid is absorbed , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Return mushrooms to gill side up . Arrange green beans around the mushrooms . Pour in wine ; simmer until absorbed , 5 to 10 minutes . Reduce heat to low ; cover . Cook until mushrooms release their juices and green beans are tender , about 10 minutes . Top mushrooms with ham slices ; sprinkle evenly with Gruyère cheese . Add remaining 1 tablespoon butter to the green beans . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and bubbly , about 5 minutes . 
Sauce : 1/2 cup demi-glace 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon tomato paste 1 pinch cayenne pepper Steaks : 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 2 (8 ounce) beef tenderloin steaks , fully trimmed , pounded to 1/2 inch thick Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper , to taste 1 tablespoon unsalted butter , cut into small chunks 3 tablespoons shallot , minced 1/4 cup Cognac or brandy 1/4 cup heavy cream 2 teaspoons sliced fresh chives  | Season steaks generously on both sides with salt . Allow steaks to come to room temperature while you make the sauce . Stir together demi-glace (see Cook's Note) , mustard , Worcestershire sauce , tomato paste , and cayenne pepper in a bowl . Heat oil in a skillet over very high heat , swirling carefully to evenly cover surface . When oil reaches a smoking point , transfer steaks to oil ; add a few chunks of butter . Sear meat on high heat until brown on each side , 2 to 3 minutes per side ; keep them on the rare side . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 125 degrees F (52 degrees C) . Transfer steaks to a warm plate . Stir shallots into skillet ; cook until softened , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove skillet from heat ; pour in Cognac . Carefully ignite with a fireplace lighter . When alcohol burns off and flames go out , return skillet to high heat and bring to a boil ; cook , stirring , a few minutes to reduce slightly . Add cream and any accumulated juices from the steak . Cook on high heat just until sauce starts to thicken , 3 to 5 minutes . Transfer steaks back to pan and reduce heat to low . Gently simmer until meat is heated through and cooked to your desired level of doneness . Transfer to hot plates and serve with a generous spoonful or two of sauce . Sprinkle with chives . 
4 large tomatoes salt to taste 1 pound ground beef 1/2 cup bread crumbs 1 pinch herbes de Provence , or to taste 1 pinch garlic powder , or to taste ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Slice tops off the tomatoes and reserve . Scoop out the pulp with a spoon and place , with juices , in a bowl . Sprinkle some salt into each tomato and set upside down in a casserole dish to drain excess juice . Chop tomato flesh into smaller pieces and place in the casserole dish . Combine ground beef , bread crumbs , herbes de Provence , garlic powder , and black pepper in the bowl ; mix together with your hands . Turn tomatoes over and stuff them with beef mixture so that a small amount rises over the top . Cover with reserved tops . Roll up any leftover beef mixture into small bowls and place in the casserole dish . Bake in the preheated oven until tomatoes are tender and beef is cooked through , 40 to 45 minutes . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 onions , sliced 1 cup mushrooms , sliced 1/2 cup creme fraiche 1/2 cup fromage blanc (French-style fresh cheese) salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 (11 ounce) package thin-crust pizza dough , at room temperature 8 strips cooked bacon 1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese (optional)  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onions and mushrooms ; cook and stir until tender , about 5 minutes . Remove from heat and let cool slightly . Combine creme fraiche and fromage blanc in a small bowl . Season with salt and pepper . Spread pizza dough onto the prepared baking sheet . Spoon creme fraiche mixture on top . Cover evenly with onions , mushrooms , and bacon strips , leaving a 1-inch border . Scatter mozzarella cheese on top . Bake in the preheated oven until crust is deep golden brown , about 15 minutes . 
Muffins : 1 1/2 cups chestnut flour 1/2 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 10 tablespoons butter , melted 3 eggs Caramelized Bananas : 2 bananas , peeled and thickly sliced 2 tablespoons white sugar , divided Icing : 1/2 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 2 1/2 tablespoons butter , softened 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line a muffin tin with paper liners . Mix chestnut flour , 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons white sugar , vanilla sugar , and baking powder together in a large bowl . Whisk 10 tablespoons melted butter and eggs together in a small bowl . Pour butter mixture into flour mixture ; gently fold together until batter is just moistened . Scoop batter into muffin tin , filling each liner 2/3 of the way full . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , about 20 minutes . Remove from oven ; transfer muffins to a wire rack to cool . Heat a large skillet over medium heat . Add banana slices in a single layer . Sprinkle 1 tablespoon white sugar on top and flip the slices . Cook until golden brown , 3 to 5 minutes . Flip again and sprinkle remaining 1 tablespoon white sugar on top . Continue cooking until second side is golden brown , 3 to 5 minutes more . Mix cream cheese and 2 1/2 tablespoons softened butter together in a bowl . Add 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar and vanilla extract . Whip vigorously until icing is smooth and reaches spreading consistency , 2 to 3 minutes . Slice muffin tops off with a paring knife . Place a slice of caramelized banana on each muffin and cover with tops . Frost muffins with cream cheese icing . Top each one with a slice of caramelized banana . 
3 tablespoons butter 1 large onion , chopped 2 carrots , chopped 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 pound zucchini , sliced 3 eggs , beaten 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream 1 1/2 ounces grated Parmesan cheese  | Heat butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; saute onion , carrots , and parsley until lightly browned , 3 to 4 minutes . Add zucchini and saute until zucchini is tender , about 15 minutes . Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Butter a baking dish . Heat a kettle or pot of water to boiling . Beat eggs , cream , and Parmesan cheese together in a bowl ; stir in zucchini mixture . Transfer mixture to the prepared baking dish . Place a clean kitchen towel in the bottom of a roasting pan . Arrange the baking dish on top of the towel and pour boiling water halfway up the sides of the baking dish , creating a water bath . Bake in the preheated oven until bubbling and set , about 45 minutes . 
2 1/3 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup vegetable oil 3 eggs , beaten 1/3 cup coconut milk 1 1/3 cups dried shredded coconut 1 teaspoon vanilla extract Chocolate Ganache : 6 1/4 ounces 85% dark chocolate , chopped 1 cup heavy whipping cream  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line a muffin tin with paper liners . Combine 2 1/3 cups plus 1 1/2 tablespoon flour , 1 1/2 cup plus 1 1/2 tablespoon white sugar , baking powder , and salt together in a large bowl . Mix vegetable oil , eggs , and coconut milk together in another bowl . Pour over flour mixture ; stir well to combine . Fold shredded coconut and vanilla extract into batter . Spoon batter into prepared muffin tin , filling each liner 2/3 of the way . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean , about 25 minutes . Remove from oven and transfer to a wire rack until cooled completely . Place chopped chocolate in a bowl . Heat cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until edges are bubbling , about 5 minutes . Pour over chocolate in the bowl . Mix until ganache is smooth and shiny . Chill until firm , about 1 hour . Remove ganache from the refrigerator . Beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until fluffy and slightly lightened in color , 3 to 5 minutes . Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a round tip . Frost cooled cupcakes with whipped ganache . 
4 1/4 cups whole milk 3 vanilla bean pods , split lengthwise 4 eggs 4 egg yolks 1 (16 ounce) package confectioners' sugar 7 ounces all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons dark rum 3 1/2 ounces butter , softened  | Combine milk and vanilla beans in a saucepan ; bring to a boil . Remove from heat and let cool to lukewarm , about 10 minutes . Beat eggs and egg yolks together in a large bowl . Gently stir in confectioners' sugar , flour , and rum . Pour in warm milk mixture , discarding vanilla beans ; gently stir until smooth . Cover bowl with plastic wrap and let batter rest in the refrigerator for 24 hours . Coat fluted molds with butter and freeze until coating is set , about 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Remove batter from the refrigerator , uncover , and pour into molds , filling each about 3/4 full . Bake in the preheated oven until deep brown in color , about 50 minutes . Remove from oven and immediately invert each canele on a wire rack to cool , 30 minutes to 1 hour . 
3 egg whites 1 cup white sugar 1/2 cup ground almonds 2 tablespoons slivered almonds , or to taste (optional)  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Line 2 baking sheets with waxed paper . Beat egg whites in a bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy . Add sugar gradually , continuing to beat on high until firm peaks form . Fold in ground almonds gently until incorporated into the dough . Drop tablespoonfuls of dough 2 inches apart onto baking sheets . Sprinkle slivered almonds onto tops . Bake in the preheated oven until golden , 12 to 15 minutes . 
1 cup water 2 1/2 cups bread flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 teaspoons bread machine yeast 1 egg yolk 1 tablespoon water  | Place 1 cup water , bread flour , sugar , salt and yeast into bread machine pan in the order recommended by manufacturer . Select Dough cycle , and press Start . When the cycle has completed , place dough in a greased bowl , turning to coat all sides . Cover , and let rise in a warm place for about 30 minutes , or until doubled in bulk . Dough is ready if indentation remains when touched . Punch down dough . On a lightly floured surface , roll into a 16x12 inch rectangle . Cut dough in half , creating two 8x12 inch rectangles . Roll up each half of dough tightly , beginning at 12 inch side , pounding out any air bubbles as you go . Roll gently back and forth to taper end . Place 3 inches apart on a greased cookie sheet . Make deep diagonal slashes across loaves every 2 inches , or make one lengthwise slash on each loaf . Cover , and let rise in a warm place for 30 to 40 minutes , or until doubled in bulk . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Mix egg yolk with 1 tablespoon water ; brush over tops of loaves . Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until golden brown . 
Macarons : 3 extra-large egg whites 1/3 cup white sugar 1 2/3 cups confectioners' sugar 1 cup almond flour 1 pinch salt Buttercream Filling : 1/2 cup butter , softened 2/3 cup confectioners' sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper . Beat egg whites in a glass , metal , or ceramic bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until foamy , about 30 seconds . Add white sugar and continue to beat until peaks are stiff enough they stay in place when the bowl is turned upside down , about 5 minutes . Sift 1 2/3 cup confectioners' sugar , almond flour , and salt together twice . Fold into the egg whites until batter is creamy and falls slowly off the lifted spatula , about 50 turns with a spatula . Transfer batter to a piping bag fitted with a round tip . Pipe batter onto the parchment paper , using a circular motion to make macarons 1 inch in diameter . Tap the baking sheet against the counter about 10 times to release any air bubbles . Bake in the preheated oven for 9 minutes . Rotate baking sheet and continue baking until macarons are shiny and rise slightly to form "feet" , about 9 minutes more . Peel off the parchment paper and allow to cool completely , about 30 minutes . Beat butter , 2/3 cup confectioners' sugar , and vanilla extract with an electric mixer until creamy and thick , about 10 minutes . Transfer filling to a piping bag fitted with a round tip . Pipe a small amount of filling onto the center of 1 macaron ; top with another macaron and press gently to sandwich the filling between the two . 
1 teaspoon vegetable oil , or as needed 2 hanger steaks 2 tablespoons minced shallot 1/4 cup dry white wine 1/4 cup beef broth 2 anchovy fillets , chopped , or more to taste 3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon minced fresh parsley 1 tablespoon minced fresh chervil 1 teaspoon minced fresh thyme  | Heat vegetable oil in a heavy skillet over medium-high heat . Cook steaks to desired doneness , about 5 minutes per side for medium ; an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C) . Transfer steaks to a plate to rest . Place shallots in the skillet and cook until beginning to soften , about 2 minutes . Pour wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping the browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Add broth and anchovy ; cook until thickened to sauce consistency , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove skillet from heat ; whisk butter in gradually . Stir parsley , chervil , and thyme into the sauce . Puree sauce in the skillet with an immersion blender until smooth . Cut steaks into thin slices across the grain ; spoon sauce over slices . 
2 slices bacon 1 teaspoon vegetable oil , or as needed 2 tablespoons milk 1 egg , beaten 1 pinch ground nutmeg 2 slices bread 1 tablespoon whole berry cranberry sauce , or more to taste 2 slices smoked turkey 1 slice provolone cheese 1 tablespoon brown mustard , or more to taste 2 slices cooked ham  | Place bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain bacon slices on paper towels . Break each piece in half . Heat oil in a skillet over medium heat . Whisk milk , egg , and nutmeg together in a shallow bowl . Dip each bread slice in the egg mixture . Cook dipped bread slices in the hot oil until French toast is lightly browned , 2 to 3 minute per side . Transfer French toast to a work surface and turn heat under skillet to medium-low . Spread cranberry sauce over 1 French toast piece and top with turkey , provolone cheese , and bacon . Spread mustard on the other French toast piece and top with ham ; lay on top of bacon layer , ham-side down , creating a sandwich . Cook sandwich in the skillet until cheese is melted and sandwich is heated through , 3 to 4 minutes per side . 
4 (6 ounce) skinless , boneless chicken breast halves Marinade : 1/3 cup dry white wine (optional) 1 lemon , juiced 1 small shallot , chopped 2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 clove garlic , crushed Salad : 1 lemon , juiced 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 2 teaspoons lemon zest 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper , divided 1/2 teaspoon salt , divided 4 cups trimmed arugula 8 ounces cherry tomatoes , halved  | Pound chicken breasts on a work surface using a meat tenderizer or heavy pan to 1/4-inch thick . Whisk wine , juice of 1 lemon , shallot , 2 teaspoons olive oil , and garlic together in a shallow bowl . Add chicken breasts ; marinate for 15 minutes . Whisk juice of 1 lemon , vinegar , 1 tablespoon olive oil , and lemon zest together in a large bowl ; stir in 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper . Add arugula and tomatoes ; toss to combine . Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat and lightly oil the grate , or heat a skillet over high heat . Remove chicken from marinade ; season with remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper . Cook chicken on preheated grill until golden brown and just cooked through , 2 to 3 minutes per side . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Plate chicken with arugula salad on top . 
2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1/2 onion , chopped 1 cup chopped fresh mushrooms 2 teaspoons minced garlic , divided salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 cup baby spinach 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour , or as needed 2 sheets frozen puff pastry (such as Pepperidge Farm®) , thawed 1 (1 1/2-pound) boned , skinned salmon fillet 1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika , or more to taste 1 egg , beaten Sauce : 1/2 cup mayonnaise 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 1/2 teaspoon dried dill  | Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion ; cook and stir until translucent , about 5 minutes . Add mushrooms and 1 teaspoon garlic ; cook and stir until mushrooms are soft , about 5 minutes . Season with salt and black pepper . Transfer onion and mushroom mixture to a small bowl . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in the same skillet . Add remaining 1 teaspoon garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Add spinach ; cook and stir until wilted , 3 to 5 minutes . Season with salt and black pepper . Transfer to another bowl . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line a glass baking dish with parchment paper . Dust work surface with flour . Lay 1 puff pastry sheet out on work surface . Spread onion and mushroom mixture evenly across pastry , leaving a 1/2-inch border . Center salmon on top . Sprinkle paprika over salmon and top with wilted spinach . Cover with second puff pastry sheet . Fold over and crimp edges to seal . Brush top with beaten egg . Transfer to baking dish . Bake in the preheated oven until pastry is golden , 40 to 45 minutes . Remove and let stand for 5 minutes . Slice into 4 portions . Whisk mayonnaise , lemon juice , Dijon mustard , and dill together in a small bowl . Spoon sauce onto 4 plates and place a piece of salmon on each . 
1 tablespoon softened butter 2 ripe pears - peeled , cored , and sliced , or more to taste 3 eggs 3/4 cup white sugar 1 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons kirsch (cherry brandy) 2 tablespoons grated lemon zest 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Butter a 10 1/2-inch round baking dish or pie plate . Fan pear slices out in a single layer in the bottom . Beat eggs and sugar together using an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment on medium speed until light and fluffy , about 3 minutes . Mix in heavy cream , flour , kirsch , lemon zest , vanilla extract , cardamom , and salt on low speed until batter is smooth . Set batter aside to rest , about 15 minutes . Pour batter over the pears in the baking dish . Bake in the preheated oven until set and golden brown , 40 to 45 minutes . Let cool briefly , about 15 minutes . Serve warm , sprinkled with confectioners' sugar . 
Sauce : 1 red bell pepper , sliced 1 tomato , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dried oregano , or to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste Sandwich : 1 eggplant , sliced 1 zucchini , sliced 1 tomato , sliced 1 red onion , sliced 4 teaspoons olive oil 4 slices sourdough bread 4 slices mozzarella cheese  | Preheat a panini press according to manufacturer's instructions . Grill red bell pepper slices in the panini press on high heat until soft , about 5 minutes . Transfer to a blender . Place chopped tomato and garlic in the blender . Blend with bell pepper until a smooth sauce forms , about 2 minutes . Season sauce with oregano , salt , and black pepper . Grill eggplant , zucchini , tomato , and onion slices in the panini press until softened , about 3 minutes per side . Drizzle olive oil over bread slices ; flip and spread with a generous amount of sauce . Place 2 slices bread , oil-side down , on the panini press ; add 1 slice of mozzarella cheese . Top with eggplant mixture and second slice of mozzarella cheese . Place second slice of bread , oil-side up , on top . Grill on medium-high until golden and cheese is melted , about 5 minutes . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds bone-in chicken pieces 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper salt to taste 1 cup canned mushrooms , including liquid 1 onion , sliced 1 green bell pepper , cut into strips 1 clove garlic , peeled 1 (16 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes 1 cup dry white wine 3/4 teaspoon salt , or more to taste 1/4 teaspoon dried marjoram 1 bay leaf 1 1/2 cups cooked rice  | Heat oil in a skillet over medium heat . Season chicken with paprika , black pepper , and salt to taste . Cook chicken in hot oil until browned on all sides , 5 to 7 minutes . Transfer chicken to a plate , reserving oil in the skillet . Drain mushroom liquid into the same skillet ; add onion , green bell pepper , and garlic . Cover skillet and cook for 5 minutes . Mix chicken , tomatoes , white wine , 3/4 teaspoon salt , marjoram , and bay leaf into onion mixture ; simmer over low heat until chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 40 minutes . Remove bay leaf and garlic . Serve chicken over rice . 
6 cups water 1 lemon , zested and juiced 4 Bosc pears - cored , peeled , stems left on 1 vanilla bean 3 cups sugar 1 cup prepared hot fudge topping , or as needed 1 cup vanilla ice cream , or as needed  | Place water in a heavy pot . Stir in zest and juice of 1 lemon . Place pears in pot . Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds . Add the seeds and split pods to the poaching liquid . Pour in sugar . Bring pot to a simmer over medium-high heat ; stir gently to dissolve sugar with minimal jostling of the pears . Reduce heat so pears continue cooking over a steady , gentle simmer . Pears need to stay submerged , so place a small plate over them in the pot to keep them under the liquid . Simmer until pears are just tender , 20 to 25 minutes . (Remove plate to test the pears for doneness.) Remove pot from heat and let pears cool to room temperature in the poaching liquid . Transfer pears and vanilla beans to a storage container and cover with some of the poaching liquid . Cover and refrigerate until pears are thoroughly chilled , several hours or overnight . Reserve all of the poaching liquid (see footnote) . Heat hot fudge sauce in a saucepan over medium heat until warm . Dip base of pear into the chocolate and spoon chocolate along the sides except for the top inch or so of the pear . Place dipped pears in individual serving bowls with another generous spoonful of syrup and a small scoop of vanilla ice cream . 
Beef Marinade : 2 tablespoons minced garlic 2 tablespoons oyster sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon fish sauce 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon hoisin sauce 1 1/2 pounds beef top sirloin , cut into 1-inch cubes Vinaigrette : 1/2 cup rice vinegar 1 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 red onion , thinly sliced Dipping Sauce : 1 lime , juiced 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons cooking oil 2 bunches watercress , torn 2 tomatoes , thinly sliced  | Whisk garlic , oyster sauce , 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar , fish sauce , sesame oil , soy sauce , and hoisin sauce together in a bowl ; add beef . Marinate beef in refrigerator for at least 1 hour . Whisk vinegar , 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar , and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt together in a bowl until vinaigrette is smooth ; add onion . Refrigerate for 10 minutes to pickle the onion . Whisk lime juice , 1/2 teaspoon salt , and black pepper together in a bowl until dipping sauce is smooth . Transfer dipping sauce to ramekins . Heat cooking oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat until oil starts to smoke ; add beef . Cook in a single layer until beef is seared , about 2 minutes . Cook and stir (or "shake") until beef reaches desired doneness , 2 to 4 minutes . Spread watercress onto a serving plate and top with tomatoes . Drizzle vinaigrette over tomatoes and layer beef onto watercress ; top with onion . Serve dipping sauce on the side . 
4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 2 large red onions , thinly sliced 2 large sweet onions , thinly sliced 1 (48 fluid ounce) can chicken broth 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 1/2 cup red wine 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 2 sprigs fresh parsley 1 sprig fresh thyme leaves 1 bay leaf 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 4 thick slices French or Italian bread 8 slices Gruyere or Swiss cheese slices , room temperature 1/2 cup shredded Asiago or mozzarella cheese , room temperature 4 pinches paprika  | Melt butter in a large pot over medium-high heat . Stir in salt , red onions and sweet onions . Cook 35 minutes , stirring frequently , until onions are caramelized and almost syrupy . Mix chicken broth , beef broth , red wine and Worcestershire sauce into pot . Bundle the parsley , thyme , and bay leaf with twine and place in pot . Simmer over medium heat for 20 minutes , stirring occasionally . Remove and discard the herbs . Reduce the heat to low , mix in vinegar and season with salt and pepper . Cover and keep over low heat to stay hot while you prepare the bread . Preheat oven broiler . Arrange bread slices on a baking sheet and broil 3 minutes , turning once , until well toasted on both sides . Remove from heat ; do not turn off broiler . Arrange 4 large oven safe bowls or crocks on a rimmed baking sheet . Fill each bowl 2/3 full with hot soup . Top each bowl with 1 slice toasted bread , 2 slice Gruyere cheese and 1/4 of the Asiago or mozzarella cheese . Sprinkle a little bit of paprika over the top of each one . Broil 5 minutes , or until bubbly and golden brown . As it softens , the cheese will cascade over the sides of the crock and form a beautifully melted crusty seal . Serve immediately ! 
2 ounces dried wild mushrooms (such as porcini or shiitake) 1 cup hot water 6 slices bacon 8 bone-in chicken thighs 1/4 cup quick-mixing flour (such as Wondra®) , or as needed salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 bunch carrots , cut into matchstick-size pieces 2 cups fresh mushrooms 1/2 pound shallots , chopped 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (750 milliliter) bottle Burgundy red wine , divided 1 cup chicken broth 2 teaspoons herbes de Provence , tied into a cheesecloth bag 5 sprigs fresh thyme 3 bay leaves 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley , or as desired  | Put dried mushrooms in a bowl and pour in hot water ; set aside until mushrooms are rehydrated . Place bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain bacon slices on paper towels , reserving bacon grease in the skillet . Coat chicken thighs with flour and season with salt and pepper . Working in batches , cook chicken in the bacon grease over medium heat until browned , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Remove chicken thighs as they brown and place on a paper towel-lined plate . Drain dried mushrooms through cheesecloth , reserving liquid . Add drained mushrooms , carrots , fresh mushrooms , shallots , and garlic to skillet over medium-high heat ; saute for 2 minutes . Pour 1 cup wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping the browned bits of food off of the bottom of the skillet with a wooden spoon until liquid is reduced , about 10 minutes . Return chicken to the skillet and mix in remaining wine , chicken broth , herbes de Provence , thyme , and bay leaves . Liquid should partially cover chicken ; if more liquid is needed , add reserved water from mushrooms . Cover skillet and simmer over low heat until chicken is no longer pink in the center , at least 1 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove cover from skillet and simmer until sauce is thickened , about 15 minutes more . Add more quick-mixing flour to sauce to thicken , if desired . Crumble bacon over chicken and vegetables and garnish with parsley . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 8 ounces bacon , cut into small pieces 1 onion , sliced 2 cloves garlic , sliced 1 (750 milliliter) bottle Riesling wine 3 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs 10 ounces shiitake mushrooms 1 bay leaf salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 (12 ounce) package egg noodles 1/4 cup butter , or to taste 2 tablespoons heavy whipping cream  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-low heat ; cook and stir bacon until crispy , about 10 minutes . Add onion and garlic ; cook , stirring occasionally , until onion is softened , 5 to 10 minutes . Mix wine , chicken , mushrooms , and bay leaf together in a large pot over medium-high heat . Transfer bacon mixture to a paper towel-lined plate using a slotted spoon . Once mixture is drained , transfer to to chicken mixture . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until chicken is no longer pink in the center and sauce is slightly thickened , 30 to 40 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook egg noodles in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until tender yet firm to the bite , 4 to 5 minutes . Drain and transfer to a bowl ; add butter and mix until coated . Stir cream into chicken mixture until evenly combined . Serve chicken mixture over buttered egg noodles . 
2 (10.75 ounce) cans cream of mushroom soup 1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1/2 cup half-and-half 1/3 cup white wine 1/3 cup mayonnaise 8 cooked skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese , or to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine cream of mushroom soup , Cheddar cheese , and half-and-half in a saucepan ; bring to a boil , stirring often . Remove saucepan from heat and stir white wine and mayonnaise , a little at a time , into soup mixture , stirring after each addition until white sauce is smooth . Arrange chicken breasts side-by-side in a shallow baking dish . Pour white sauce over chicken and top with Parmesan cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until bubbling and chicken is warmed , about 45 minutes . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 (3 pound) chicken , cut into 2 breasts , 2 wings , 2 thighs , and 2 drumsticks 1/2 pound pearl onions 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 cups red wine 1/2 pound carrots , sliced diagonally 1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms 1/2 cup chicken stock 3 thick-cut bacon slices 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 1/2 tablespoons tomato paste 1/2 teaspoon thyme 1 strip of orange peel 1 bay leaf salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Fry chicken , turning often , in the hot oil until all sides are browned , 5 to 10 minutes . Remove chicken from skillet . Add onions to skillet ; cook and stir over medium heat until softened , about 5 minutes . Add garlic and cook until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir flour into onion mixture until blended and dissolved . Add wine , stirring constantly until evenly mixed . Mix carrots , mushrooms , chicken stock , bacon , parsley , tomato paste , thyme , orange peel , bay leaf , salt , and pepper into onion mixture ; return chicken . Bring liquid to a boil . Transfer mixture to a baking dish ; cover . Bake in the preheated oven until chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 45 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . 
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup milk 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (8 ounce) package button mushrooms , sliced 2 cups halved baby carrots 1 onion , chopped 2 cups red wine 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth , or as needed 2 teaspoons Italian seasoning 1/2 teaspoon dried rosemary salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Mix flour , 1/2 teaspoon salt , 1/2 teaspoon pepper together in a shallow bowl . Pour milk into a separate bowl . Dip chicken in the milk , allowing excess milk to drip back into bowl . Dredge chicken through flour mixture until evenly coated . Cook 1/2 of the chicken in the hot oil until browned , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Remove chicken from pot and brown remaining chicken . Return all the chicken to the pot . Mix mushrooms , carrots , and onion into chicken , stirring gently to distribute vegetables among the chicken . Pour wine over chicken and vegetables , stirring with a wooden spoon to scrape up any browned bits from bottom of pot . Add enough chicken broth to nearly cover the chicken and vegetables . Stir Italian seasoning , rosemary , salt , and pepper into broth mixture ; bring to a boil . Cover pot , reduce heat to low , and simmer , stirring occasionally , until chicken is cooked through , about 1 hour . Remove lid and turn heat up to medium-high ; boil , stirring occasionally , until sauce is reduced and thickened , about 15 minutes . 
1/4 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon lemon zest 1/2 cup all-purpose flour salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 (8 ounce) fillets swai fish , halved 1/4 cup butter 1 teaspoon minced fresh parsley , or to taste  | Whisk lemon juice and lemon zest together in a bowl . Mix flour , salt , and pepper together in a resealable gallon-size plastic bag . Pat swai fish fillets dry with a paper towel ; lightly season 1 side of each fillet with salt . Place fillets in the bag with flour mixture , 1 at a time , and shake to coat . Heat a large skillet over medium heat ; add butter and heat until lightly browned . Place coated fish fillets in the browned butter ; cook until lightly browned on the edges and fish flakes easily with a fork , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Transfer fish to a plate , reserving butter in the skillet . Pour lemon juice mixture into skillet with reserved butter ; cook and stir until a light sauce forms , 2 to 3 minutes . Spoon sauce over fish and garnish with parsley . 
1/2 pound bacon , chopped 6 chicken thighs , or more to taste 2 shallots , chopped 2 teaspoons dried thyme 1 teaspoon dried rosemary 1 teaspoon minced garlic , or more to taste 2 cups dry white wine 1 cup sliced mushrooms , or to taste (optional) 1 cup chicken stock , or more as needed salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour  | Cook and stir bacon in a large , deep skillet over medium-high heat until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Transfer bacon to a paper towel-lined plate , reserving bacon grease in skillet . Place chicken thighs in the bacon grease and cook until browned , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Add shallots , thyme , rosemary , and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , about 1 minute . Sprinkle bacon over chicken mixture and pour in wine ; simmer until wine is slightly reduced , 1 to 2 minutes . Add mushrooms and enough chicken stock to almost cover chicken . Cover skillet and simmer for 35 minutes ; taste broth and adjust seasoning . Simmer until chicken is no longer pink near the bone , about 10 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat ; stir in flour and cook until a thick paste forms , about 1 minute . Whisk paste into chicken mixture until sauce is thickened , 1 to 2 minutes . 
1 1/2 cups olive oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (750 milliliter) bottle red wine 1 tablespoon chopped fresh tarragon 1 tablespoon chopped fresh chervil 1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 4 bunches green onions , chopped 3 (6 ounce) cans mushroom stems and pieces  | Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium heat ; cook chicken in hot oil until browned , about 5 minutes per side . Add red wine , tarragon , chervil , chives , and parsley to chicken ; mix well . Mix green onions and mushrooms into chicken mixture ; simmer , stirring occasionally , until liquid is reduced to a thick sauce and chicken is longer pink in the center , about 1 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour 4 chicken breasts , cut into quarters 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 (8 ounce) package white mushrooms , sliced 6 carrots , peeled and sliced 1 1/2 cups white cooking wine 6 slices cooked bacon , crumbled 3/4 cup chicken broth 1/4 cup minced garlic 1 shallot , chopped 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon dried marjoram 1 bay leaf salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons butter , softened  | Place flour in a shallow bowl . Dredge chicken through flour until evenly coated , shaking excess flour back into bowl . Reserve remaining flour . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; saute chicken until golden brown , about 3 minutes per side . Add mushrooms , carrots , cooking wine , bacon , chicken broth , garlic , shallot , parsley , thyme , marjoram , bay leaf , salt , and black pepper ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover skillet , and simmer until chicken is cooked through and carrots are soft , 15 to 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Mix butter and 2 tablespoons reserved flour together in a bowl until smooth ; stir into chicken mixture until sauce becomes thick , about 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 4 bone-in chicken thighs with skin 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 (6 ounce) package portobello mushroom caps 1 tomato , sliced 2 tablespoons white cooking wine , or to taste 1 cup heavy whipping cream 1/4 cup shredded Gruyere cheese 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon water 1 cup chopped sweet onion  | Heat olive oil in a nonstick pot over medium heat . Add chicken thighs , Italian seasoning , and garlic ; cook until chicken is browned on both sides , about 5 minutes per side . Mix mushrooms and tomato into chicken mixture ; reduce heat , cover pot , and cook until mushrooms are softened , about 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a baking dish . Drain accumulated juices from chicken-mushroom-tomato mixture into a separate saucepan and transfer chicken-mushroom-tomato mixture to the prepared baking dish . Pour wine into saucepan with juices and bring to a boil . Add cream and Gruyere cheese ; cook and stir until cheese is melted and sauce is smooth , 3 to 4 minutes . Stir cornstarch and water together in a small bowl until cornstarch is dissolved ; mix into cream sauce until smooth and thickened . Pour sauce over chicken-vegetable mixture ; top with onion . Bake in the preheated oven until chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 30 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . 
6 cups all-purpose flour 2 1/2 (.25 ounce) packages active dry yeast 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 2 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 tablespoon cornmeal 1 egg white 1 tablespoon water  | In a large bowl , combine 2 cups flour , yeast and salt . Stir in 2 cups warm water , and beat until well blended using a stand mixer with a dough hook attachment . Using a wooden spoon , stir in as much of the remaining flour as you can . On a lightly floured surface , knead in enough flour to make a stiff dough that is smooth and elastic . Knead for about 8 to 10 minutes total . Shape into a ball . Place dough in a greased bowl , and turn once . Cover , and let rise in a warm place until doubled . Punch dough down , and divide in half . Turn out onto a lightly floured surface . Cover , and let rest for 10 minutes . Roll each half into large rectangle . Roll up , starting from a long side . Moisten edge with water and seal . Taper ends . Grease a large baking sheet . Sprinkle with cornmeal . Place loaves , seam side down , on the prepared baking sheet . Lightly beat the egg white with 1 tablespoon of water , and brush on . Cover with a damp cloth . Let rise until nearly doubled , 35 to 40 minutes . With a very sharp knife , make 3 or 4 diagonal cuts about 1/4 inch deep across top of each loaf . Bake in a preheated 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) oven for 20 minutes . Brush again with egg white mixture . Bake for an additional 15 to 20 minutes , or until bread tests done . If necessary , cover loosely with foil to prevent over browning . Remove from baking sheet , and cool on a wire rack . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 cups cubed eggplant 2 cups cubed zucchini 1 cup diced onion 1/2 cup diced celery 1/2 cup diced red bell pepper 1/2 cup cider vinegar 5 tablespoons tomato paste 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano  | Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir eggplant , zucchini , onion , celery , and red bell pepper until tender , 10 to 15 minutes . Add cider vinegar , tomato paste , garlic , curry powder , salt , and oregano ; simmer until liquid is slightly reduced , 5 to 10 minutes . 
5 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 1 (12 ounce) fresh salmon fillet 8 ounces smoked salmon , chopped 1/3 cup chopped green onion 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon chopped fresh tarragon , or to taste 7 tablespoons butter , softened 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon black pepper  | Bring water to a boil in a large saucepan and add salt . Add salmon fillet , reduce to a simmer , and cook until just cooked through , 6 to 8 minutes . Transfer salmon to a plate using a slotted spoon and let cool 10 minutes . Flake salmon into a large bowl , discarding skin , and toss with smoked salmon , green onion , parsley , and tarragon . Whisk together butter , mayonnaise , mustard , lemon juice , and pepper in a bowl until smooth . Add mayonnaise mixture to salmon mixture and gently stir until well combined . Cover and chill 3 hours . Serve with toasted baguette slices or crackers . 
1 pound salted cod fish 1 1/2 cups whole milk 6 sprigs fresh thyme 2 bay leaves 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 pound Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cut into 2-inch chunks 8 large cloves garlic , halved 1 teaspoon lemon zest 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil , divided 1/2 lemon , juiced 1 pinch freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon creme fraiche (optional)  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking dish and set dish on a baking sheet . Rinse salt cod under cold water , transfer to a sealable container and cover with several inches of cold water . Soak cod in the refrigerator , changing the water every few hours , for 24 to 36 hours . Remove cod from water and cut into evenly-sized pieces . Stir cod , milk , thyme , bay leaves , and cayenne pepper together in a pot over medium-high heat . Cook until fish begins to flake ; 7 to 15 minutes . Remove from heat and strain ; reserve cooking liquid and transfer fish to a bowl . Place potatoes and garlic in a large pot and cover with water ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain . Mash cod , a few splashes reserved cooking liquid , and lemon zest together in a bowl . Pour in remaining reserved cooking liquid and potatoes ; mash until desired consistency is reached . Stir in 1/2 of the olive oil , lemon juice , and black pepper until smooth . Add remaining olive oil and blend until smooth . Season with salt . Pour mixture into prepared baking dish . Spread creme fraiche over the top and score the top with a spoon to create a crisscross surface . Bake in the preheated oven until browned and bubbling , about 20 minutes 
1 egg , beaten 2 tablespoons water 4 sheets frozen puff pastry  | Beat egg and water together in a small bowl . Cut two rounds from each sheet of puff pastry using a 3-inch round cutter , forming 8 circles . Use a 2 1/2-inch round cutter to cut through 4 of the rounds . Place entire cut round on top of an un-cut round . Brush each with egg mixture . Bake in the preheated oven until puffed and golden , 20 to 25 minutes . 
2 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons brown sugar 4 large eggs 1 teaspoon double-strength imitation vanilla extract (such as Goodman's Route 66) 1/2 teaspoon almond extract (such as Watkins® pure almond extract) 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 8 thick slices slightly stale Texas toast  | Mix whole milk and brown sugar in a large bowl . Beat eggs , vanilla extract , almond extract , cinnamon , nutmeg , and allspice together in a separate bowl until the eggs are well beaten ; add to the milk mixture and stir to dissolve the brown sugar . Heat a non-stick skillet or griddle over medium-low heat . Set one slice of Texas toast into the milk mixture ; let soak until moistened , about 10 seconds per side . Cook the dipped toast in the preheated skillet until bottom is golden brown , 3 to 5 minutes ; flip toast and continue to cook until the other side is browned , 3 to 5 minutes more . Repeat dipping and cooking with remaining bread slices . 
2 cloves garlic , lightly crushed 1 cup Sauvignon Blanc wine 8 ounces Gruyere cheese , shredded 8 ounces Cheddar cheese , shredded 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour  | Pour enough water into a large pot to be a few inches deep . Set a large stainless steel bowl atop the pot to make a double-boiler . Put garlic cloves into the bowl and turn heat below double-boiler to medium ; cook until the garlic is fragrant and warm , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour wine into the bowl ; cook until fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove garlic from wine and discard . Mix Gruyere cheese , Cheddar cheese , and flour in a bowl ; gradually add to the wine while stirring continually . Cook and stir the mixture until the cheese is melted and the mixture is smooth , 2 to 3 minutes . 
Spice Rub : 1 1/2 tablespoons kosher salt 2 teaspoons ground black pepper , or more to taste 2 teaspoons dried thyme Potpourri : 12 cloves garlic 6 (1/4 inch thick) slices fresh ginger 1 orange , zest cut into thin strips 1 bunch fresh thyme , plus more for garnish 3 bay leaves 1 whole duck 2 tablespoons unsalted butter , softened 1 tablespoon brandy (such as Armagnac) 2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon chopped fresh chives 1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1 pinch cayenne pepper salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/2 teaspoon grated orange zest  | Preheat oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) . Line a 9x13 baking dish with 2 pieces of aluminum foil . Stir kosher salt , 2 teaspoons black pepper , and dried thyme together in a bowl . Mix garlic , ginger , orange zest strips , fresh thyme , and bay leaves together in another bowl . Season duck all over , inside and out , with about 2/3 of the kosher salt mixture . Fill duck cavity with garlic mixture . Place duck , breast-side up , into prepared baking dish and season with remaining salt mixture . Wrap duck tightly in aluminum foil . Roast in the preheated oven until meat pulls away from the bones , 5 to 6 hours . Cool duck with its accumulated juices , wrapped in aluminum foil , to room temperature . Chill in the refrigerator for 12 hours or overnight . Pick meat from bones and place in a bowl . Spoon all accumulated juices in the foil into a saucepan and place over medium-high heat . Cook until hot throughout ; strain through a fine-mesh strainer into a bowl . Let fat and stock separate ; transfer fat from the top to another bowl . Mash duck meat , 3 tablespoons duck fat , 2 tablespoons duck stock , butter , brandy , parsley , chives , Dijon mustard , cayenne pepper , salt , and ground black pepper together in a bowl with a wooden spoon ; transfer to a sealable container , press down , and drizzle a little duck fat over the top . Sprinkle thyme leaves , black pepper , and orange zest over the top . Seal the container and refrigerate for the flavors to blend , 1 to 3 days . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons butter 1 large white onion , sliced 1 clove garlic , minced 1/4 cup white wine 1/2 cup beef broth 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (such as Diamond Crystal®) 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 sheet puff pastry 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Heat olive oil and butter together in a skillet over medium-high heat until the butter is melted , 2 to 3 minutes . Saute onion and garlic in the hot oil mixture until the onion begins to caramelize , 15 to 20 minutes . Pour white wine over the onion mixture ; bring to a simmer and cook until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Add beef broth and thyme ; cook until the liquid reduces in volume by half . Season the mixture with kosher salt and black pepper . Trim puff pastry and fit into a tart pan . Score a rim along the edge of the pastry . Puncture the center of the pastry with a fork . Spread the onion mixture over the pastry ; top with Parmesan cheese and mozzarella cheese . Bake in preheated oven until the crust is golden brown , 15 to 20 minutes . 
cooking spray 4 eggs , beaten 1/2 cup half-and-half 1/2 cup milk 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla extract 1 (8 ounce) loaf French bread , cut into small cubes 1/4 cup butter 3 Granny Smith apples - peeled , cored , and cut into small dice 1/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Prepare a 7x11-inch baking dish with cooking spray . Beat eggs , half-and-half , milk , white sugar , and vanilla extract together in a large bowl ; add bread cubes and stir to coat . Let soak until bread is moist , at least 10 minutes . Melt butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir apples and brown sugar into the melted butter to moisten the sugar completely ; add cinnamon and cook , stirring regularly , until the apples are warmed yet still firm , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir apple mixture into the bread mixture ; pour into the prepared baking dish . Bake in preheated oven until golden on top and still somewhat soft in the center , 35 to 45 minutes . 
6 bone-in , skin-on chicken thighs 1 pinch kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 8 ounces bacon , sliced crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces 10 large button mushrooms , quartered 1/2 large yellow onion , diced 2 shallots , sliced 2 teaspoons all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons butter 1 1/2 cups red wine 6 sprigs fresh thyme 1 cup chicken broth  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Season chicken thighs all over with salt and black pepper . Place bacon in a large , oven-proof skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Transfer bacon with a slotted spoon to a paper-towel lined plate , leaving drippings in the skillet . Increase heat to high and place chicken , skin-side down , into skillet . Cook in hot skillet until browned , 2 to 4 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a plate ; drain and discard all but 1 tablespoon drippings from the skillet . Lower heat to medium-high ; saute mushrooms , onion , and shallots with a pinch of salt in the hot skillet until golden and caramelized , 7 to 12 minutes . Stir flour and butter into vegetable mixture until completely incorporated , about 1 minute . Pour red wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Stir bacon and thyme into red wine mixture ; simmer until wine is about 1/3 reduced , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour chicken broth into wine mixture and set chicken thighs into skillet ; bring wine and stock to a simmer . Cook chicken in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Spoon pan juices over the chicken and continue cooking until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Transfer chicken to a platter . Place skillet over high heat and reduce pan juices , skimming fat off the top as necessary , until sauce thickens slightly , about 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper ; remove and discard thyme . Pour sauce over chicken . 
1/2 cup unsalted butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 cups sliced onions 4 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 2 tablespoons dry sherry (optional) 1 teaspoon dried thyme salt and pepper to taste 4 slices French bread 4 slices provolone cheese 2 slices Swiss cheese , diced 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Melt butter with olive oil in an 8 quart stock pot on medium heat . Add onions and continually stir until tender and translucent . Do not brown the onions . Add beef broth , sherry and thyme . Season with salt and pepper , and simmer for 30 minutes . Heat the oven broiler . Ladle soup into oven safe serving bowls and place one slice of bread on top of each (bread may be broken into pieces if you prefer) . Layer each slice of bread with a slice of provolone , 1/2 slice diced Swiss and 1 tablespoon Parmesan cheese . Place bowls on cookie sheet and broil in the preheated oven until cheese bubbles and browns slightly . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 shallot , diced 1 cup pinot noir wine 1 cup beef broth 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 1 pinch salt to taste (optional)  | Heat olive oil in a small saucepan over medium heat . Cook shallot in hot oil until golden brown , about 5 minutes . Pour wine into saucepan ; cook , stirring regularly , until reduced in volume by half , 3 to 4 minutes . Stir beef broth with the wine . Reduce heat to medium-low and cook at a simmer until slightly reduced , about 5 minutes . Stir butter and Italian seasoning into the sauce ; cook until butter is completely melted , 2 to 3 minutes . Season with salt . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons dried parsley 1 eggplant , cut into 1/2 inch cubes salt to taste 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 zucchini , sliced 1 large onion , sliced into rings 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 1 green bell pepper , sliced 2 large tomatoes , chopped  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat bottom and sides of a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish with 1 tablespoon olive oil . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in a medium skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir garlic until lightly browned . Mix in parsley and eggplant . Cook and stir until eggplant is soft , about 10 minutes . Season with salt to taste . Spread eggplant mixture evenly across bottom of prepared casserole dish . Sprinkle with a few tablespoons of Parmesan cheese . Spread zucchini in an even layer over top . Lightly salt and sprinkle with a little more cheese . Continue layering in this fashion , with onion , mushrooms , bell pepper , and tomatoes , covering each layer with a sprinkling of salt and cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 45 minutes . 
2 eggs 1 cup milk 2/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 1 1/2 teaspoons vegetable oil  | In a blender combine eggs , milk , flour , salt and oil . Process until smooth . Cover and refrigerate 1 hour . Heat a skillet over medium-high heat and brush with oil . Pour 1/4 cup of crepe batter into pan , tilting to completely coat the surface of the pan . Cook 2 to 5 minutes , turning once , until golden . Repeat with remaining batter . 
9 ounces bittersweet chocolate , chopped 1 cup heavy cream 1 tablespoon dark rum (optional)  | Place the chocolate into a medium bowl . Heat the cream in a small sauce pan over medium heat . Bring just to a boil , watching very carefully because if it boils for a few seconds , it will boil out of the pot . When the cream has come to a boil , pour over the chopped chocolate , and whisk until smooth . Stir in the rum if desired . Allow the ganache to cool slightly before pouring over a cake . Start at the center of the cake and work outward . For a fluffy frosting or chocolate filling , allow it to cool until thick , then whip with a whisk until light and fluffy . 
1 clove garlic , halved 2 pounds potatoes , peeled and thinly sliced 2 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream 2 1/4 cups freshly grated Comte cheese salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Rub the cut sides of the garlic over the bottom and sides of an 8-inch baking dish . Spread a layer of potato slices in the bottom of dish . Pour in a third of the heavy cream ; sprinkle a third of the Comte cheese on top . Season with salt and black pepper . Repeat layers twice more , ending with layers of heavy cream and Comte cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until potatoes are tender and cheese is golden brown , about 1 hour . 
4 eggs , lightly beaten 1 1/3 cups milk 2 tablespoons butter , melted 1 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt  | In large bowl , whisk together eggs , milk , melted butter , flour sugar and salt until smooth . Heat a medium-sized skillet or crepe pan over medium heat . Grease pan with a small amount of butter or oil applied with a brush or paper towel . Using a serving spoon or small ladle , spoon about 3 tablespoons crepe batter into hot pan , tilting the pan so that bottom surface is evenly coated . Cook over medium heat , 1 to 2 minutes on a side , or until golden brown . Serve immediately . 
3 egg yolks 1/4 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 dash hot pepper sauce (e.g . Tabasco™) 1/2 cup butter  | In the container of a blender , combine the egg yolks , mustard , lemon juice and hot pepper sauce . Cover , and blend for about 5 seconds . Place the butter in a glass measuring cup . Heat butter in the microwave for about 1 minute , or until completely melted and hot . Set the blender on high speed , and pour the butter into the egg yolk mixture in a thin stream . It should thicken almost immediately . Keep the sauce warm until serving by placing the blender container in a pan of hot tap water . 
1 1/2 cups milk 3 egg yolks 2 tablespoons vanilla extract 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons melted butter  | In a large bowl , mix together the milk , egg yolks and vanilla . Stir in the flour , sugar , salt and melted butter until well blended . Heat a crepe pan over medium heat until hot . Coat with vegetable oil or cooking spray . Pour about 1/4 cup of batter into the pan and tip to spread the batter to the edges . When bubbles form on the top and the edges are dry , flip over and cook until lightly browned on the other side and edges are golden . Repeat with remaining batter . Fill crepes with your favorite fruit , cream , caramel or even ice cream or cheese to serve . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 3 tablespoons white sugar 1 cup shortening 1 egg 1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar 5 tablespoons water  | In a large mixing bowl , combine flour , salt , and sugar . Mix well , then cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse meal . In a small bowl , combine egg , vinegar , and 4 tablespoons of water . Whisk together , then add gradually to flour mixture , stirring with a fork . Mix until dough forms a ball . Add one more tablespoon of water if necessary . Allow dough to rest in refrigerator 10 minutes before rolling out . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 2 cups milk 2 tablespoons butter , melted  | Sift together flour , sugar and salt ; set aside . In a large bowl , beat eggs and milk together with an electric mixer . Beat in flour mixture until smooth ; stir in melted butter . Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat . Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle , using approximately 2 tablespoons for each crepe . Tip and rotate pan to spread batter as thinly as possible . Brown on both sides and serve hot . 
1 1/2 pounds cubed beef stew meat 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 (14.5 ounce) cans Italian-style diced tomatoes 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 4 carrots , chopped 2 potatoes , peeled and chopped 3/4 teaspoon dried thyme 2 tablespoons Dijon-style prepared mustard salt and pepper to taste  | Combine meat and flour in a large plastic food storage bag and toss to coat evenly . In a 6 quart saucepan brown meat in hot vegetable oil . Season with salt and pepper , if desired . Add diced tomatoes , beef broth , carrots , potatoes and thyme . Bring to boil ; reduce heat to medium-low , cover ; and simmer for 1 hour or until beef is tender . Blend in mustard and serve . 
1 recipe pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 12 slices bacon 1 cup shredded Swiss cheese 1/3 cup minced onion 4 eggs , beaten 2 cups light cream 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon white sugar 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Place bacon in a large skillet , and fry over medium-high heat until crisp . Drain on paper towels , then chop coarsely . Sprinkle bacon , cheese and onion into pastry shell . In a medium bowl , whisk together eggs , cream , salt , sugar and cayenne pepper . Pour mixture into pastry shell . Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven . Reduce heat to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) , and bake an additional 30 minutes , or until a knife inserted 1 inch from edge comes out clean . Allow quiche to sit 10 minutes before cutting into wedges . 
8 skinless , boneless chicken breasts 8 slices cooked ham 4 slices Swiss cheese , cut into 1 inch pieces salt and pepper to taste 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/4 cup melted butter 1/2 cup cornflakes cereal crumbs 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1/2 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon lemon juice  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place each chicken breast half between sheets of plastic wrap and pound with a meat mallet to about 1/8 inch thickness . Place a finger of cheese on each ham slice and sprinkle lightly with thyme and salt and pepper to taste . Roll up seasoned ham and cheese 'jellyroll-style' , then roll each chicken breast with ham and cheese inside . Tuck in ends and fasten with toothpicks . Place melted butter in a small bowl and place cereal crumbs in a shallow dish or bowl . Dip each chicken roll in butter or margarine , then roll in crumbs , turning to coat thoroughly . Place coated rolls in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Bake at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) for about 40 minutes or until chicken is golden brown and juices run clear . Serve with cordon bleu sauce , if desired . To Make Cordon Bleu Sauce : In a small saucepan mix together the soup , sour cream and lemon juice . Heat over low heat , stirring occasionally , and serve hot over chicken rolls . Makes about 2 cups ; 8 servings of 1/4 cup each . 
6 egg yolks 6 tablespoons white sugar , divided 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 1/2 cups heavy cream 2 tablespoons brown sugar  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Beat egg yolks , 4 tablespoons white sugar and vanilla extract in a mixing bowl until thick and creamy . Pour cream into a saucepan and stir over low heat until it almost comes to boil . Remove the cream from heat immediately . Stir cream into the egg yolk mixture ; beat until combined . Pour cream mixture into the top pan of a double boiler . Stir over simmering water until mixture lightly coats the back of a spoon , about 3 minutes . Remove mixture from heat immediately and pour into a shallow heat-proof dish . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes . Remove from oven and cool to room temperature . Refrigerate for at least 1 hour or overnight . Preheat oven to broil . In a small bowl combine remaining 2 tablespoons white sugar and brown sugar . Sift this mixture evenly over custard . Place dish under broiler until sugar melts , about 2 minutes . Watch carefully so as not to burn . Remove from heat and allow to cool . Refrigerate until custard is set again . 
2 cups milk 1/4 cup white sugar 2 egg yolks 1 egg 1/4 cup cornstarch 1/3 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | In a heavy saucepan , stir together the milk and 1/4 cup of sugar . Bring to a boil over medium heat . In a medium bowl , whisk together the egg yolks and egg . Stir together the remaining sugar and cornstarch ; then stir them into the egg until smooth . When the milk comes to a boil , drizzle it into the bowl in a thin stream while mixing so that you do not cook the eggs . Return the mixture to the saucepan , and slowly bring to a boil , stirring constantly so the eggs don' t curdle or scorch on the bottom . When the mixture comes to a boil and thickens , remove from the heat . Stir in the butter and vanilla , mixing until the butter is completely blended in . Pour into a heat-proof container and place a piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface to prevent a skin from forming . Refrigerate until chilled before using . 
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 cups unsalted butter , at room temperature 4 cups all-purpose flour , divided 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons sugar 2 (.25 ounce) packages active dry yeast 1/4 cup lukewarm water 1 cup milk 1/2 cup heavy cream 1 egg 1 tablespoon water  | Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of flour over the butter and mix it together with your hands in a mixing bowl or on a work surface . Transfer the butter to a length of foil or parchment paper and pat it into a 6 inch square . Fold up the foil to make a packet and refrigerate until chilled , about 2 hours . Combine 2 cups of the flour with the salt and sugar in a mixing bowl . Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm water (100 degrees F/38 degrees C) and set aside until frothy , about 10 minutes . Meanwhile , warm the milk and the heavy cream to lukewarm . Add the yeast , milk , and cream to the flour mixture and stir well . The dough will have a batter-like consistency . Stir in the remaining 2 cups of flour 1/4 cup at a time to form a soft dough . It should no longer be sticky . Turn the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth , about 5 minutes . Place the dough in a mixing bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Refrigerate for 1 hour . To begin the rolling and folding process , both the butter and the dough should be at a cool room temperature . [See Cook's Note.] Place the dough on a floured surface and roll it into a 10-inch square . Set the block of butter diagonally on the square dough . Bring each point of dough to the center of the butter square ; the edges of the dough should overlap . Pinch the edges together to seal . Starting from the center of the square and working outward , use a rolling pin to roll the dough out into a rectangle . The butter should be pliable enough to roll smoothly with the dough ; if it's too soft and starts to ooze out the corners , wrap the dough in plastic and refrigerate before proceeding . Roll the dough into a long rectangle , approximately 8 by 18 inches . Fold the length of dough into thirds , like a business letter . If the dough is still cool , you can continue with another fold . Otherwise , wrap it in plastic and refrigerate for 45 minutes to 1 hour . Remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it warm up for about 10 minutes before you begin rolling it out again . Position the dough so that the open ends are at 12 and 6 o'clock . Roll the dough into a rectangle , working from the center of the dough and pressing outwards . Reposition the dough as necessary to fit your work space . You should have a long rectangle for the "book fold." Fold both ends of the dough into the middle ; the ends don't have to be touching , but should be close . Fold the already-folded dough in half ; it will look like a thick book . Wrap the dough well with plastic and refrigerate for 1 to 2 hours . Remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it rest at room temperature for about 20 minutes . Roll the dough into a rectangle again and fold it into thirds , like a business letter . Wrap it in plastic and refrigerate for 4-6 hours or overnight . To shape the croissants , roll the dough into a 10- by 38-inch rectangle on a lightly floured work surface . It should be about 1/4 inch thick . Use a pizza wheel or sharp paring knife to trim the edges of the dough . Divide the rectangle in half so that you have two 5-inch wide strips of dough . Use a clean yardstick to mark each strip into triangles that are 5 inches wide at their bases . Cut the triangles and place them onto parchment-lined baking sheets . Chill for 15 to 20 minutes , if necessary . Starting at the base of the triangle , roll the dough up into a log ; the tip of the triangle should be under the body of the croissant to prevent it from unraveling . Bend in the corners to form the traditional crescent shape . Repeat with the remaining dough . Arrange the croissants on the parchment-lined baking sheets and allow to rise until doubled in size , about 1 to 2 hours . Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Beat the egg with the tablespoon of water to make the egg wash . Brush the croissants with egg wash and bake in the preheated oven until deep brown , 22 to 25 minutes . Cool on a rack before serving . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 cup milk 4 ounces sliced ham 4 ounces sliced Swiss cheese 1 (8 ounce) package herbed dry bread stuffing mix 1/4 cup butter , melted  | Mix together the cream of chicken soup and milk in a small bowl . Pour enough of the soup into a slow cooker to cover the bottom . Layer chicken breasts over the sauce . Cover with slices of ham and then Swiss cheese . Pour the remaining soup over the layers , stirring a little to distribute between layers . Sprinkle the stuffing on top , and drizzle butter over stuffing . Cover , and cook on Low for 4 to 6 hours , or 2 to 3 hours on High . 
1/4 cup butter 3 onions , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 2 1/2 cups water 1/2 cup red wine 2 (10.5 ounce) cans condensed beef broth 1 French baguette 8 ounces sliced Swiss cheese  | Melt butter or margarine in a 4 quart saucepan . Stir in sugar . Cook onions over medium heat for 10 minutes , or until golden brown . Stir in flour until well blended with the onions and pan juices . Add water , wine , and beef broth ; heat to boiling . Reduce heat to low . Cover soup , and simmer for 10 minutes . Cut four 1 inch thick slices of bread from the loaf . Toast the bread slices at 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) just until browned , about 10 minutes . Reserve the remaining bread to serve with the soup . Ladle soup into four 12 ounce , oven-safe bowls . Place 1 slice toasted bread on top of the soup in each bowl . Fold Swiss cheese slices , and fit onto toasted bread slices . Place soup bowls on a cookie sheet for easier handling . Bake at 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) for 10 minutes , or just until cheese is melted 
6 bone-in , skin-on chicken thighs 1 pinch kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 8 ounces bacon , sliced crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces 10 large button mushrooms , quartered 1/2 large yellow onion , diced 2 shallots , sliced 2 teaspoons all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons butter 1 1/2 cups red wine 6 sprigs fresh thyme 1 cup chicken broth  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Season chicken thighs all over with salt and black pepper . Place bacon in a large , oven-proof skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Transfer bacon with a slotted spoon to a paper-towel lined plate , leaving drippings in the skillet . Increase heat to high and place chicken , skin-side down , into skillet . Cook in hot skillet until browned , 2 to 4 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a plate ; drain and discard all but 1 tablespoon drippings from the skillet . Lower heat to medium-high ; saute mushrooms , onion , and shallots with a pinch of salt in the hot skillet until golden and caramelized , 7 to 12 minutes . Stir flour and butter into vegetable mixture until completely incorporated , about 1 minute . Pour red wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Stir bacon and thyme into red wine mixture ; simmer until wine is about 1/3 reduced , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour chicken broth into wine mixture and set chicken thighs into skillet ; bring wine and stock to a simmer . Cook chicken in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Spoon pan juices over the chicken and continue cooking until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Transfer chicken to a platter . Place skillet over high heat and reduce pan juices , skimming fat off the top as necessary , until sauce thickens slightly , about 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper ; remove and discard thyme . Pour sauce over chicken . 
1/2 cup butter 1 cup water 1 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 4 eggs 1 (5 ounce) package instant vanilla pudding mix 2 1/2 cups cold milk 1 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 tablespoons hot water  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Grease a cookie sheet . In a medium saucepan , combine 1/2 cup butter and 1 cup water . Bring to a boil , stirring until butter melts completely . Reduce heat to low , and add flour and salt . Stir vigorously until mixture leaves the sides of the pan and begins to form a stiff ball . Remove from heat . Add eggs , one at a time , beating well to incorporate completely after each addition . With a spoon or a pastry bag fitted with a No . 10 , or larger , tip , spoon or pipe dough onto cookie sheet in 1 1/2 x 4 inch strips . Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven , then reduce heat to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) and bake 20 minutes more , until hollow sounding when lightly tapped on the bottom . Cool completely on a wire rack . For the filling , combine pudding mix and milk in medium bowl according to package directions . In a separate bowl , beat the cream with an electric mixer until soft peaks form . Beat in 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla . Fold whipped cream into pudding . Cut tops off of cooled pastry shells with a sharp knife . Fill shells with pudding mixture and replace tops . For the icing , melt the chocolate and 2 tablespoons butter in a medium saucepan over low heat . Stir in 1 cup confectioners' sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla . Stir in hot water , one tablespoon at a time , until icing is smooth and has reached desired consistency . Remove from heat , cool slightly , and drizzle over filled eclairs . Refrigerate until serving . 
2 eggs 2 slices ham , chopped (optional) 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 tablespoon chopped onion (optional) 1 tablespoon chopped green bell pepper (optional) 2 tablespoons chopped fresh tomato (optional) 1 tablespoon chunky salsa (optional) 2 fresh mushrooms , sliced (optional)  | Crack the eggs into a large resealable freezer bag . Press out most of the air , and seal . Shake or squeeze to beat the eggs . Open the bag , and add the ham , cheese , onion , green pepper , tomato , salsa , and mushrooms . Squeeze out as much of the air as you can , and seal the bag . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Place up to 8 bags at a time into the boiling water . Cook for exactly 13 minutes . Open the bag , and let the omelet roll out onto a plate . The omelet should roll out easily . 
1 (8 ounce) wheel Brie cheese 3 tablespoons apricot preserves 1/2 (17.5 ounce) package frozen puff pastry , thawed 1 egg white  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a cookie sheet . Slice one wheel of Brie cheese in half so you have 2 circles of cheese . Spread apricot or peach preserves on (the cut side) half of one circle of brie . Make sandwich out of the two halves of Brie , so that the preserves are in the center of both halves . Wrap the entire wheel of Brie with one sheet of puffed pastry and flip the entire concoction onto the prepared cooking sheet so the seam is on bottom . Brush the puffed pastry with the egg white . Bake for 30 minutes , or until the pastry in golden brown . Serve immediately . 
4 egg whites 2 1/4 cups confectioners' sugar  | Preheat the oven to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) . Butter and flour a baking sheet . In a glass or metal bowl , whip egg whites until foamy using an electric mixer . Sprinkle in sugar a little at a time , while continuing to whip at medium speed . When the mixture becomes stiff and shiny like satin , stop mixing , and transfer the mixture to a large pastry bag . Pipe the meringue out onto the prepared baking sheet using a large round tip or star tip . Place the meringues in the oven and place a wooden spoon handle in the door to keep it from closing all the way . Bake for 3 hours , or until the meringues are dry , and can easily be removed from the pan . Allow cookies to cool completely before storing in an airtight container at room temperature . 
50 fresh mussels , scrubbed and debearded 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 5 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup white wine 2 tablespoons margarine or butter 3 green onions , chopped 1 bunch fresh parsley , chopped 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped salt and pepper to taste  | Place mussels in a large bowl with cold water to cover . Let them soak for about 20 minutes to remove any dirt or sand . Heat olive oil in a large stockpot over medium-low heat . Add garlic , and saute for one minute , but do not brown . Add the chopped green onion and tomatoes , and cook until almost tender . Pour in the white wine , and stir in the parsley and butter . Bring to a boil , and allow to boil until the liquid has reduced by half , about 15 minutes . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Add the mussels to the pot , cover and allow to cook until the shells are opened , about 10 minutes . Transfer the mussels and sauce to a large serving bowl , discarding any unopened shells . Bon appetit ! 
1 (18.25 ounce) package chocolate cake mix 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 2 (1 ounce) squares unsweetened chocolate , melted 1/2 cup cold water 1 (3.9 ounce) package instant chocolate pudding mix 1 cup heavy cream , whipped  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Prepare and bake cake mix according to package directions for two 9-inch layers . Cool and remove from pans . In a large bowl , mix together sweetened condensed milk and melted chocolate . Gradually stir in the water , then instant pudding until smooth . Chill for at least 30 minutes . Remove the chocolate mixture from the refrigerator , and stir to loosen . Fold in whipped cream and return to the refrigerator for at least another hour . Place one layer of cake onto a serving plate . Top with 1 1/2 cups of the mousse , then cover with the remaining cake layer . Frost with the remaining mousse , and refrigerate until serving . Garnish with fresh fruit or chocolate shavings . 
2 (.25 ounce) packages active dry yeast 1/2 cup warm water (110 degrees F) 2 cups water 6 cups bread flour 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon white sugar 5 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons cornmeal 1 egg white , beaten 1 tablespoon sesame seeds  | In a small bowl , dissolve yeast in warm water . Let stand until creamy , about 10 minutes . In a large bowl , combine the yeast mixture with 2 cups water , 3 cups flour , salt , sugar and vegetable oil ; stir well to combine . Stir in the remaining flour , 1/2 cup at a time , beating well after each addition . When the dough has pulled together , turn it out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic , about 8 minutes . Lightly oil a large bowl , place the dough in the bowl and turn to coat with oil . Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until doubled in volume , about 1 hour . Divide dough half . Roll each half into a 9 x 12 rectangle and roll up jelly roll style , starting at long edge . Seal edges and place seam side down on a large baking sheet that has been sprinkled with cornmeal . Use a sharp knife to slash each loaf diagonally 3 times . Brush with beaten egg white and sprinkle with sesame seeds . Cover and allow to rise 30 minutes . Meanwhile , preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Bake in preheated oven for 35 minutes , or until golden brown . 
1/2 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 2 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup white sugar 1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 5 egg yolks 4 tablespoons white sugar  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Place about 2 tablespoons of the chocolate chips into each of four 6 ounce ramekins . Place them in the microwave , and heat on full power for 30 second intervals . Stir , and continue heating until chocolate has melted . Spread to cover the sides and bottom of each ramekin . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Meanwhile , in a saucepan , whisk together the cream , 1/4 cup sugar , and salt . Set over medium heat , and warm until steam rises from the surface . Then in a separate bowl , whisk together the egg yolks and vanilla . When the cream is hot , ladle a little bit into the egg yolks while whisking quickly . Ladle in a bit more to bring the yolks up to a high temperature without scrambling them . Whisk the yolk mixture into the rest of the cream . Ladle into the chocolate lined ramekins . Place a towel in the bottom of a baking dish , and place the filled ramekins on top of the towel . Place in the oven , and pour boiling water carefully into the baking dish until it comes half way up the sides of the ramekins . Cover the dish loosely with aluminum foil . Bake for 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven , just until the custard is set . Remove ramekins from the dish , and refrigerate for 4 to 6 hours . Before serving , sprinkle 1 tablespoon of sugar over the top of each creme brulee . Use a kitchen torch or your oven's broiler to caramelize the sugar . It may take 2 to 3 minutes in the broiler . Serve immediately . 
2 boneless pork loin chops , butterflied 4 ounces crumbled blue cheese 2 slices bacon - cooked and crumbled 2 tablespoons chopped fresh chives garlic salt to taste ground black pepper to taste chopped fresh parsley for garnish  | Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease a shallow baking dish . In a small bowl , mix together the blue cheese , bacon and chives . Divide into halves , and pack each half into a loose ball . Place each one into a pocket of a butterflied pork chop , close , and secure with toothpicks . Season each chop with garlic salt and pepper . Keep in mind that the blue cheese will be salty . Place in the prepared baking dish . Bake for 20 minutes in the preheated oven , or it may take longer if your chops are thicker . Cook until the stuffing is hot , and chops are to your desired degree of doneness . Garnish with fresh parsley and serve . 
8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 8 slices ham 8 slices Swiss cheese 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 cup sour cream 1/2 cup white wine 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (6 ounce) package herb-seasoned dry bread stuffing mix  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place chicken breasts in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Lay a ham slice , then a cheese slice on top of each breast . In a medium bowl combine the soup , sour cream , wine , garlic powder , parsley , salt and pepper . Mix well and pour mixture over chicken/ham/cheese pieces . Top all with the dry stuffing mix to cover . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for about 30 minutes , or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear . 
2 cups heavy cream 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar 1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 6 egg yolks 1/2 cup white sugar 1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1/8 teaspoon salt 6 egg whites 1/4 cup white sugar confectioners' sugar for dusting  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Line a 10x15 inch jellyroll pan with parchment paper . In a large bowl , whip cream , 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar , 1/2 cup cocoa , and 1 teaspoon vanilla until thick and stiff . Refrigerate . In a large bowl , use an electric mixer to beat egg yolks with 1/2 cup sugar until thick and pale . Blend in 1/3 cup cocoa , 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla , and salt . In large glass bowl , using clean beaters , whip egg whites to soft peaks . Gradually add 1/4 cup sugar , and beat until whites form stiff peaks . Immediately fold the yolk mixture into the whites . Spread the batter evenly into the prepared pan . Bake for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the cake springs back when lightly touched . Dust a clean dishtowel with confectioners' sugar . Run a knife around the edge of the pan , and turn the warm cake out onto the towel . Remove and discard parchment paper . Starting at the short edge of the cake , roll the cake up with the towel . Cool for 30 minutes . Unroll the cake , and spread the filling to within 1 inch of the edge . Roll the cake up with the filling inside . Place seam side down onto a serving plate , and refrigerate until serving . Dust with confectioners' sugar before serving . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/2 inch thickness 6 string cheese sticks 6 slices ham 1/2 cup butter , melted 1 cup seasoned dry bread crumbs toothpicks  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lay out the pounded chicken breasts on a clean surface . Place a slice of ham on each piece , then one stick of cheese . Roll the chicken up around the cheese and ham , and secure with toothpicks . Dip each roll in melted butter , then roll in bread crumbs . Place in a shallow baking dish . Bake for 40 minutes in the preheated oven , or until chicken is browned and juices run clear . 
4 onions , chopped 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 3 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 1 1/4 cups water 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme 1 cup white wine 1 French baguette , cut into 1/2 inch slices 8 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a large pot over medium heat , saute the onions in the butter or margarine for 10 minutes , or until onions are tender . Stir in the flour , ground black pepper and the sugar to form a pasty mixture . Now add the beef broth , water , parsley and thyme and simmer for 10 minutes , Then add the wine and simmer for 10 more minutes . Preheat oven to broil . Fill individual oven safe bowls 3/4 full with the soup . Place a slice of bread on top of the soup and cover with the cheese . Place bowls in the oven . Broil in the oven until the cheese is melted and bubbly 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour 4 eggs , beaten 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 cup white wine 2 cups chicken broth 1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup butter 2 lemons , juiced 1 teaspoon cornstarch  | Coat chicken with flour , then egg beat , then saute in a large skillet until almost cooked through . Drain on paper toweling . Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . In a medium saucepan combine the wine , broth , parsley , salt and pepper to taste , butter or margarine and lemon juice over medium low heat . Stir together while heating slowly . When butter or margarine has melted , slowly stir in cornstarch until sauce thickens slightly . Place chicken in a 9x13 inch baking dish and pour sauce over all . Bake at 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) for about 10 to 15 minutes , or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear . 
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1/2 onion , chopped 1/4 cup minced garlic 1 tablespoon olive oil 3/4 cup water salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 small eggplant , trimmed and very thinly sliced 1 zucchini , trimmed and very thinly sliced 1 yellow squash , trimmed and very thinly sliced 1 red bell pepper , cored and very thinly sliced 1 yellow bell pepper , cored and very thinly sliced 3 tablespoons olive oil , or to taste 1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves , or to taste 3 tablespoons mascarpone cheese  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Spread tomato paste into the bottom of a 10x10-inch baking dish . Sprinkle with onion and garlic and stir in 1 tablespoon olive oil and water until thoroughly combined . Season with salt and black pepper . Arrange alternating slices of eggplant , zucchini , yellow squash , red bell pepper , and yellow bell pepper , starting at the outer edge of the dish and working concentrically towards the center . Overlap the slices a little to display the colors . Drizzle the vegetables with 3 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and black pepper . Sprinkle with thyme leaves . Cover vegetables with a piece of parchment paper cut to fit inside . Bake in the preheated oven until vegetables are roasted and tender , about 45 minutes . Serve with dollops of mascarpone cheese . 
2 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup white sugar 1 pinch salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 egg yolks 4 tablespoons white sugar  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) and line the bottom of a large baking pan with a damp kitchen cloth . Bring a large pot of water to boil . While water is boiling , combine cream , 1/4 cup sugar and salt in saucepan over medium heat . Stir occasionally 4 to 5 minutes , until steam rises . In a medium bowl , beat egg yolks and vanilla until smooth . Pour hot cream into yolks , a little at a time , stirring constantly , until all cream is incorporated . Pour mixture into four 6 oz . ramekins . Place ramekins on towel in baking dish , and place dish on oven rack . Pour boiling water into dish to halfway up the sides of the ramekins . Cover whole pan loosely with foil . Bake 25 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until custard is just set . Chill ramekins in refrigerator 4 to 6 hours . Before serving , sprinkle 1 tablespoon sugar over each custard . Use a kitchen torch or oven broiler to brown top , 2 to 3 minutes . 
2 onions , thinly sliced 1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 2 1/2 cups water 6 slices French bread , toasted 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup shredded Swiss cheese  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F(220 degrees C) . Separate sliced onion into single rings . In a medium sauce pan saute onions in butter until soft , approximately 20 minutes . Stir in flour and gradually add broth and water . Bring to a boil and simmer for 20 minutes . Meanwhile , toast French bread slices . Place toasted bread into soup bowls . Pour soup mixture over bread and sprinkle with Parmesan and Swiss cheese . Bake for 10 minutes . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon active dry yeast 2 teaspoons salt 1 2/3 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary (optional) 1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme (optional) 1 teaspoon chopped fresh sage (optional)  | Combine the flour , yeast , and salt in a large bowl and mix to combine . Add the water and herbs , if using , and mix well . The dough will be very sticky and shaggy-looking . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and set aside at room temperature for 18 to 24 hours . Generously flour a work surface . The dough will have risen and will be covered in bubbles . Transfer the dough to the work surface and dust it with flour . Fold the dough in half , and then form the dough into a ball by stretching and tucking the edges of the dough underneath the ball . Liberally flour a kitchen towel (do not use terrycloth) . Place the dough ball on the floured towel . Cover with another floured towel . Let the dough rise for about two hours [see footnote] . Preheat an oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place a lidded Dutch oven or deep heavy duty casserole dish (with lid) into the oven to preheat . Carefully remove the hot baking dish from the oven . Remove the lid and gently turn the dough ball into the ungreased baking dish , seam-side up ; shake the dish so the dough is more evenly distributed . Cover and bake for 30 minutes . Remove the lid and bake until the crust is golden brown , 15 to 20 minutes . Remove the loaf from the baking dish and let it cool on a rack before slicing . 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 pounds cubed stew meat 4 tablespoons butter 1 onion , chopped 2 carrots , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 2 cups red wine 1 bay leaf 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1 (6 ounce) can sliced mushrooms 1 (16 ounce) can canned onions  | In a small bowl , combine the flour , salt and ground black pepper . Coat the beef cubes with this mixture . Melt the butter or margarine in a large skillet over medium high heat . Add the meat and brown well on all sides . Pour this into a 2 quart casserole dish . Return the skillet to the heat and add the onion , carrots and garlic to it . Saute for 5 to 10 minutes , or until onion is tender . add the wine , bay leaf , parsley , thyme , and liquid from the mushrooms . Pour over meat . Bake , covered , at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 2 1/2 hours . Remove cover , add canned onions and mushroom crowns , and bake for 30 more minutes . 
1 cup chopped dried figs 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1 teaspoon dried rosemary 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2/3 cup chopped kalamata olives 2 cloves garlic , minced salt and pepper to taste 1/3 cup chopped toasted walnuts 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese  | Combine figs and water in a saucepan over medium heat . Bring to a boil , and cook until tender , and liquid has reduced . Remove from heat , and stir in the olive oil , balsamic vinegar , rosemary , thyme , and cayenne . Add olives and garlic , and mix well . Season with salt and pepper to taste . Cover , and refrigerate for 4 hours or overnight to allow flavors to blend . Unwrap cream cheese block , and place on a serving platter . Spoon tapenade over cheese , and sprinkle with walnuts . Serve with slices of French bread or crackers . 
1/2 (17.5 ounce) package frozen puff pastry , thawed 1 (8 ounce) wheel Brie cheese 1/4 cup sliced almonds  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degree C) . Lightly grease a 9 inch pie pan . Slice the wheel of Brie in half , horizontally , so that the halves are two , flatter wheels of Brie . Lay the puff pastry in the pie pan . Place half of the Brie (rind-side down) onto the pastry dough . Sprinkle almonds evenly over the top . Place the other half of the Brie (rind-side up) over the almonds . Bundle the pastry dough around the Brie . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes . Let cool for 5 minutes before serving . 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon nutmeg 1/2 cup white sugar 1/3 cup shortening 1 egg 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 6 tablespoons margarine , melted  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease 12 muffin cups or line cups with paper muffin liners . In a large bowl , whisk together flour , baking powder , salt , and nutmeg . In a separate bowl , cream together 1/2 cup sugar and shortening . Beat in egg . Stir flour mixture into shortening mixture alternately with milk . Beat well . Spoon batter into prepared muffin cups . Bake in preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes . While muffins are baking , combine 1/2 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon . Remove muffins from oven and muffin pan . Immediately , dip the tops of the muffins into the melted margarine , then into the sugar/cinnamon mixture . Repeat with each muffin , until all muffin tops are covered . Serve warm . 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried dill weed 1/4 cup butter , divided 4 boneless , skinless chicken breast halves 1 pound fresh mushrooms 1 onion , sliced into rings 1/2 cup white wine 8 ounces Gruyere cheese , shredded  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a shallow dish , stir together the flour , salt , pepper , parsley , and dill . Rinse chicken breasts , and pat dry . Dredge chicken in the flour mixture . In a large skillet , heat 2 tablespoons of the butter over medium-high heat . Place chicken into the hot buttered skillet , and fry until brown on both sides . Transfer chicken breasts to a 1 quart glass baking dish . Add remaining butter to skillet , and fry the mushrooms and onion until wilted and lightly browned . Stir in the white wine , and reduce heat to medium . Simmer for 3 minutes to blend flavors . Pour the mushroom mixture over the chicken in the dish . Cover dish , and bake for 20 minutes in the preheated oven . After 20 minutes , remove cover , and sprinkle with shredded cheese . Continue baking for 10 more minutes , or until cheese is lightly browned and bubbly . 
2 eggs 3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon lemon zest 1/4 cup butter 1/3 cup granulated sugar for decoration  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Butter and flour 12 (3 inch) madeleine molds ; set aside . Melt butter and let cool to room temperature . In a small mixing bowl , beat eggs , vanilla and salt at high speed until light . Beating constantly , gradually add sugar ; and continue beating at high speed until mixture is thick and pale and ribbons form in bowl when beaters are lifted , 5 to 10 minutes . Sift flour into egg mixture 1/3 at a time , gently folding after each addition . Add lemon zest and pour melted butter around edge of batter . Quickly but gently fold butter into batter . Spoon batter into molds ; it will mound slightly above tops . Bake 14 to 17 minutes , or until cakes are golden and the tops spring back when gently pressed with your fingertip . Use the tip of the knife to loosen madeleines from pan ; invert onto rack . Immediately sprinkle warm cookies with granulated sugar . Madeleines are best eaten the day they're baked . Leftover madeleines are wonderful when dunked into coffee or tea . Variation : Chocolate Madeleines : Omit lemon zest . Increase sugar to 1/2 cup . Substitute 1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder for 2 tablespoons of the flour ; sift into batter with flour . 
1 egg 1/2 cup milk 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 1 cup plain dried bread crumbs 1 cup oil for frying 8 ounces Swiss cheese , cubed 8 ounces cubed ham 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Beat egg and 1/2 cup milk together until combined . Stir in the chicken chunks to coat , then drain , and coat with bread crumbs . Heat oil in a large skillet to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Fry breaded chicken cubes in hot oil until golden brown on all sides , then remove , and drain on paper towels . Place chicken cubes in a glass baking dish , along with the Swiss cheese , and ham . Stir together the soup with 1 cup milk , pour over casserole . Bake in preheated oven until golden brown and bubbly , about 30 minutes . 
1 recipe pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 6 slices bacon 1 onion , sliced 3 eggs , beaten 1 1/2 cups milk 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups shredded Swiss cheese 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Line pastry shell with foil . Bake in oven for 8 minutes . Remove foil and bake for an additional 5 minutes , or until crust is set and dry . Remove from oven and turn down temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . In a large skillet , cook bacon until crisp . Drain and reserve 2 tablespoons of drippings . Crumble the bacon and set aside . Cook onion in skillet with reserved drippings ; cook until onion is tender and then drain . In a large bowl , mix together milk , salt and eggs . Stir in bacon and onion . In a separate bowl , toss cheese and flour together , then add to egg mixture . Be sure to mix well . Pour egg mixture into pie crust . Bake in preheated oven for 35 to 40 minutes , or until knife inserted in center of quiche comes out clean . If necessary , cover edge of crust with foil while baking to prevent burning or overbrowning . Let stand for 10 minutes before serving . 
3 egg whites 1/4 cup white sugar 1 2/3 cups confectioners' sugar 1 cup finely ground almonds  | Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat . Beat egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment until whites are foamy ; beat in white sugar and continue beating until egg whites are glossy , fluffy , and hold soft peaks . Sift confectioners' sugar and ground almonds in a separate bowl and quickly fold the almond mixture into the egg whites , about 30 strokes . Spoon a small amount of batter into a plastic bag with a small corner cut off and pipe a test disk of batter , about 1 1/2 inches in diameter , onto prepared baking sheet . If the disk of batter holds a peak instead of flattening immediately , gently fold the batter a few more times and retest . When batter is mixed enough to flatten immediately into an even disk , spoon into a pastry bag fitted with a plain round tip . Pipe the batter onto the baking sheet in rounds , leaving space between the disks . Let the piped cookies stand out at room temperature until they form a hard skin on top , about 1 hour . Preheat oven to 285 degrees F (140 degrees C) . Bake cookies until set but not browned , about 10 minutes ; let cookies cool completely before filling . 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup milk 1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup margarine 1/2 cup minced onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon minced parsley 2 tablespoons margarine  | In a large bowl combine the yeast , sugar , 1 teaspoon of the salt and 1 1/2 cups of the flour . In a sauce pan combine the milk , water and 1/4 cup of the butter or margarine until 110 degrees F (38 degrees C) . Add milk mixture and vinegar to the flour mixture and blend at low speed of the mixer until moistened . Beat at medium speed for 3 minutes . Stir in 1 1/2 cups additional flour to form a sticky dough . Turn dough out onto a floured surface and knead adding 1/2 to 1 cup more of flour until dough is smooth and pliable . Place dough in a greased bowl and let rise in a warm place until doubled in volume . Punch down dough and roll into a rectangle shape about 16x8 inches . In a saucepan heat the onion , garlic , 1/2 teaspoon salt , parsley and 2 tablespoons butter or margarine until butter or margarine is melted . Spread over the dough rectangle and starting from the 16 inch side roll the dough up tightly like a jelly roll . Place the bread seam side down onto a greased cookie sheet and let rise until doubled in sized . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C) . Bake bread until golden brown about 20 to 30 minutes . Brush hot bread with melted butter and sprinkle with chopped parsley . 
3 cups Burgundy wine 2 tablespoons brandy 2 onions , thinly sliced 2 carrots , chopped 1 sprig fresh parsley 1 bay leaf 1 clove garlic , crushed 10 whole black peppercorns 1 teaspoon salt 2 pounds cubed beef chuck roast 4 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1/4 pound bacon , cubed 2 onions , chopped 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon tomato paste 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 (10.5 ounce) can beef broth salt and pepper to taste 4 tablespoons butter 1 pound fresh mushrooms , sliced  | For marinade : In a large bowl , combine the wine , cognac , onions , carrots , parsley , bay leaf , garlic , peppercorns and salt . Mix well and add the cubed beef . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 days . Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . For Bourguignon : Strain the meat from the vegetables and marinade ; reserve marinade . Dry meat with paper towels . Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Add the meat and saute for 10 minutes , or until browned on all sides . Transfer meat to a separate medium bowl with a slotted spoon and set aside . In the same skillet , add the bacon and saute until lightly browned . Transfer the bacon to the bowl with the meat . Drain the skillet and return it to the heat . Pour a cup of marinade into the skillet to deglaze the skillet , scraping the bottom to loosen up all the little bits . Return this liquid to the reserved marinade . Heat the remaining oil in the skillet . Add the onion and carrot from the marinade , along with the additional onion that you've chopped , and saute for 5 minutes , or until tender . Transfer this mixture to the bowl with the meat and bacon , again using a slotted spoon , and return skillet to the heat . Add the flour to the skillet , combining with the oil and stir until well mixed and brown , about 2 minutes . Now add the tomato paste , garlic , beef broth , reserved marinade and salt and pepper to taste . Bring to a boil and whisk to remove any flour lumps . Add this to the meat and vegetable mixture . Place entire mixture into a 9x13 baking dish . Bake at 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) for 3 hours , stirring occasionally and adding water as needed . Season with salt and pepper to taste . About 15 minutes before meat is done baking , melt butter in the skillet over medium high heat . Add the mushrooms and saute for 5 to 10 minutes , or until lightly browned . When meat is done , add the mushrooms to the meat mixture , stir well and let sit for about 15 minutes . 
2 cups heavy cream 3 tablespoons cultured buttermilk  | Combine cream and buttermilk in a glass jar . Cover tightly with cheesecloth (or any breathable material) and let sit at room temperature (70 to 75 degrees F (21 to 24 degrees C)) for 24 hours . Stir , screw on lid , and refrigerate for 24 hours before using . 
3 cloves garlic , peeled 1 cup pitted kalamata olives 2 tablespoons capers 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons olive oil salt and pepper to taste  | Place the garlic cloves into a blender or food processor ; pulse to mince . Add the olives , capers , parsley , lemon juice , and olive oil Blend until everything is finely chopped . Season to taste with salt and pepper . 
2 cups heavy cream 1/3 cup white sugar 6 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur superfine sugar as needed  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Place 6 ramekins on a towel set in a roasting pan at least 3 inches deep . Stir together cream and sugar in a saucepan over medium heat , and cook until very hot , stirring until the sugar dissolves . Whisk together egg yolks , vanilla , and Irish cream until combined . Slowly add 1/3 of the hot cream , whisking it in 2 tablespoons at a time until incorporated . Once you have incorporated 1/3 of the cream , you can stir in the remaining hot cream without fear of the mixture curdling . Pour custard into the ramekins , then fill roasting pan with boiling hot water to come halfway up the sides of the ramekins . Bake in preheated oven until set , 50 to 60 minutes . Once the custard has set , place ramekins on a wire rack , and allow to cool to room temperature , about 1 hour . Cover , and refrigerate until cold , about 4 hours . Custards may remain refrigerated until ready to serve . Unwrap the custards , and sprinkle about 1 teaspoon of superfine sugar onto each . Gently shake the custards so the sugar coats the entire top surface , then tip the custards to a 45 degree angle and shake off excess sugar . Using a small hand torch , melt the sugar by making short passes over top of the custards with the flame not quite touching . Continue melting the sugar until it turns deep brown . Once the sugar has melted and turned to caramel , the cold custard underneath will harden the sugar into a crispy crust . Serve immediately . Alternatively , the sugar-dusted custards may be browned underneath the broiler in the oven . 
3/4 cup water 2 teaspoons honey 2 teaspoons olive oil 2/3 teaspoon salt 2/3 teaspoon white sugar 2 cups bread flour 1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast 1 tablespoon honey (optional)  | Add to your bread machine per manufacturer instructions . While bread is baking , drizzle with honey if desired . 
3 pounds Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and very thinly sliced 3 cloves garlic , minced 3/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup heavy cream , divided freshly ground black pepper to taste freshly grated nutmeg to taste 2 cups freshly shredded Gruyere cheese , divided  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place potatoes , garlic , and salt into a large pot , fill with enough water to cover , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium , and simmer the potatoes until tender but not mushy , 8 to 10 minutes . With a slotted spoon , transfer about half the potatoes to a 9x13-inch baking dish . Pour half of the cream over the potatoes , season with black pepper and nutmeg , and sprinkle half of the Gruyere cheese onto the mixture . Top with the remaining potatoes ; sprinkle again with black pepper and nutmeg . Pour on the remaining cream , and sprinkle with remaining Gruyere cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until the cheese topping is crisp and brown on top , about 1 hour . 
2 eggs 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/2 teaspoon lemon zest 1 cup confectioners' sugar 3/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup butter , melted and cooled  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease and flour twenty-four 3-inch Madeleine molds . In a medium bowl beat eggs , vanilla and lemon zest with an electric mixer on high speed for 5 minutes . Gradually beat in the confectioners' sugar . Beat for 5 to 7 minutes or until thick and satiny . Sift together the flour and baking powder . Sift one-fourth of the flour mixture over the egg mixture , gently fold in . Fold in the remaining flour by fourths . Then fold in the melted and cooled butter . Spoon batter into the prepared molds , filling 3/4 full . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 10 to 12 minutes or until the edges are golden and the top s spring back . Cool in molds on a rack for 1 minute . Loosen cookies with a knife . Invert cookies onto a rack and cool . Sift confectioners' sugar over the tops or melt semi-sweet chocolate chips and dip the tips in the chocolate . Store in an airtight container . 
5 onions , thinly sliced 6 cups beef broth 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 tablespoons butter or margarine 1 pound shredded Swiss cheese 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 cup white wine salt and pepper to taste 1 (1 pound) loaf French bread , sliced  | In a medium stock pot , heat beef broth over medium-high heat . In a saute pan , add butter and oil and cook over medium-high heat . Once heated , add onions and stir , until onions are tender and transparent . Stir in sugar . Add onions to heated broth , stir and let simmer for 20 minutes . Add wine and season with salt and pepper , simmer for 10 minutes . Pour soup mixture into individual serving bowls and place a slice of bread on top , making sure bread gets well soaked . Place shredded cheese on top of bread and broil , 3 inches below heat , until cheese bubbles . 
1 (9 inch) refrigerated pie crust 2 teaspoons butter 3 leeks , chopped 1 pinch salt and black pepper to taste 1 cup light cream 1 1/4 cups shredded Gruyere cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium-low heat . Stir in leeks ; cook , stirring occasionally , for about 10 minutes , or until soft . Season with salt and pepper . Reduce heat to low . Stir in cream and cheese , and warm through . Pour mixture into pie shell Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , or until custard is set and golden on top . Allow to sit 10 minutes before cutting pie into wedges . 
6 tablespoons white sugar , divided 14 Italian prune plums , halved and pitted 3 eggs 1 1/3 cups milk 2/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon zest 2 teaspoons vanilla 1 pinch salt 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Butter a 10 inch pie plate , and sprinkle 1 tablespoon of sugar over the bottom . Arrange the plum halves , cut side down , so that they cover the entire bottom of the pie plate . Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of sugar over the top of the plums . In a blender , combine the remaining 3 tablespoons of sugar , eggs , milk , flour , lemon zest , cinnamon , vanilla , and salt . Process until smooth , about 2 minutes . Pour over the fruit in the pan . Bake for 50 to 60 minutes in the preheated oven , or until firm and lightly browned . Let stand 5 minutes before slicing . Dust with confectioners' sugar before serving . 
1/2 cup egg whites 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 4 ounces chocolate confectioners' coating  | Preheat the oven to 225 degrees F (110 degrees C) . Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment paper or aluminum foil . In a large glass or metal bowl , use an electric mixer to whip egg whites until foamy . Add cream of tartar , salt , and vanilla . Continue whipping until the whites hold soft peaks . Gradually sprinkle in the sugar so that it does not sink to the bottom , and continue whipping until the mixture holds stiff shiny peaks . Place a round tip into a pastry bag , and fill the bag half way with the meringue . To pipe the mushroom caps , squeeze out round mounds of meringue onto one of the prepared cookie sheets . Pull the bag off to the side to avoid making peaks on the top . For the stems , press out a tiny bit of meringue onto the other sheet , then pull the bag straight up . They should resemble candy kisses . Do not worry about making all of the pieces exactly the same . The mushrooms will look more natural if the pieces are different sizes . Dust the mushroom caps lightly with cocoa using a small sifter or strainer . Bake for 1 hour in the preheated oven , or until the caps are dry enough to easily remove from the cookie sheets . Set aside to cool completely . Melt the coating chocolate in a metal bowl over simmering water , or in a glass bowl in the microwave , stirring occasionally until smooth . Poke a small hole in the bottom of a mushroom cap . Spread chocolate over the bottom of the cap . Dip the tip of a stem in chocolate , and press lightly into the hole . When the chocolate sets , they will hold together . Repeat with remaining pieces . Store at room temperature in a dry place or tin . 
2 slices whole wheat bread 2 tablespoons butter , softened 1 tablespoon sour cream 2 slices Swiss cheese 1 thick slice deli cooked chicken breast meat 1 slice deli ham  | Spread butter or margarine on the outsides of the bread slices . Spread sour cream on the insides of the bread slices . Then layer sandwich as follows : Bread slice , cheese slice , chicken , ham , 2nd cheese slice , 2nd bread slice . In a small skillet over medium heat , grill sandwich until meat is heated through and cheese has melted . 
4 onions , chopped 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon white sugar 3 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 1 1/4 cups water 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme 1 cup white wine 1 French baguette , cut into 1/2 inch slices 8 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a large pot over medium heat , saute the onions in the butter or margarine for 10 minutes , or until onions are tender . Stir in the flour , ground black pepper and the sugar to form a pasty mixture . Now add the beef broth , water , parsley and thyme and simmer for 10 minutes , Then add the wine and simmer for 10 more minutes . Preheat oven to broil . Fill individual oven safe bowls 3/4 full with the soup . Place a slice of bread on top of the soup and cover with the cheese . Place bowls in the oven . Broil in the oven until the cheese is melted and bubbly 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 4 slices ham 4 slices Swiss cheese 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon paprika 2 eggs , beaten 1/3 cup milk 1 cup dry bread crumbs 1/4 cup olive oil 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1/2 pound fresh mushrooms , sliced 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/8 teaspoon curry powder 1/4 cup white wine 1/2 cup sour cream 2 sprigs fresh parsley , for garnish  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Flatten chicken breasts without breaking through meat . Roll each ham slice in a cheese slice , then roll up in chicken breasts . In a shallow dish or bowl season flour with salt , pepper and paprika . In a separate dish or bowl beat together eggs and milk . Dip chicken rolls in seasoned flour , then egg mixture , then bread crumbs . Heat oil in a large skillet and fry chicken in hot oil until golden brown . Set aside . To Make Sauce : In a large bowl combine the soup , mushrooms , garlic powder , curry powder , wine and sour cream . Mix all together . Place browned chicken in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Pour sauce mixture over chicken and bake in the preheated oven for 15 to 20 minutes . Garnish with fresh parsley sprigs . 
1 cup white rice 2 cups chicken stock 1 1/2 teaspoons herbes de Provence 1 pinch sea salt 1 pinch pepper  | In a medium saucepan stir together rice , chicken stock , herbes de Provence , salt , and pepper . Set over high heat , and bring to a simmer ; cover , and cook 20 minutes . Fluff with a fork , and serve . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup milk 1 egg 1 pinch salt  | In a medium-size mixing bowl , whisk together the flour , milk , egg and salt . Heat a large frying pan or wok over medium high heat . When the pan is hot add a teaspoon of butter and lightly coat the surface of the pan with the melted butter . Pour one quarter cup of the batter into the pan and tilt the pan with a circular motion so that the batter coats the surface in a smooth and even layer . After two minutes , lift up an edge of the crepe with a spatula to see if it is browning . When the underside has begun to brown , flip the crepe and cook the other side until it is also brown ; about 2 minutes . Repeat steps 3 and 4 to cook the remaining crepes . Serve hot . 
Pastry : 1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 1/2 cup butter , softened 1 egg yolk 3 tablespoons cold water , or as needed Frangipane : 1/2 cup butter , softened 1/2 cup white sugar 1 egg , beaten 1 egg yolk 1 tablespoon apple brandy 2/3 cup ground almonds 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 4 medium sweet apples - peeled , cored , halved and thinly sliced 1 teaspoon white sugar for decoration 1/4 cup apricot jelly  | In a medium bowl , stir together 1 1/3 cups of flour and salt . Add the butter , 1 egg yolk and water , and stir until the mixture forms large crumbs . If it is too dry to press a handful together , stir in more water . Press the dough into a ball , and wrap in plastic wrap . Flatten slightly , and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes , or until firm . This part can be done up to three days in advance . To make the frangipane , cream together the butter and 1/2 cup of sugar in a medium bowl until light and soft . Gradually mix in the egg and the remaining egg yolk one at a time . Stir in the apple brandy . Stir 2 tablespoons of flour into the ground almonds , then mix into the batter . Set aside . Roll the pastry dough out to about a 12 inch circle on a lightly floured surface . Fold loosely into quarters , and center the point in a 10 inch tart or pie pan . Unfold dough , and press into the bottom and up the sides . Prick with a fork all over , and flute the edges . Return pastry to the refrigerator to chill until firm . Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place a baking sheet inside the oven while it preheats . Spoon the frangipane into the chilled pastry , and spread into an even layer . Arrange the apple slices in an overlapping spiral pattern . Each slice should have one edge pressed into the frangipane until it touches the pastry base , and then overlap the previous slice . Start at the outside edge , and work towards the center . Place the pie plate on top of the baking sheet in the preheated oven . Bake for 15 minutes , or until the filling begins to brown . Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bake for another 10 minutes , then sprinkle sugar over the top of the tart . Return to the oven for 10 more minutes , or until the sugar caramelizes slightly . Cool the tart on a wire rack . A short time before serving , warm the apricot jelly . Add some water if necessary to make it a liquid consistency . Brush onto the tart for a nice shine . 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour , or as needed salt and black pepper to taste 2 eggs , beaten 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/4 cup butter 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1/4 cup dry sherry 1/4 cup lemon juice 2 teaspoons low-sodium chicken base  | Mix together the flour , salt , and pepper in a shallow bowl . In another bowl , whisk beaten eggs , sugar , and Parmesan cheese until the mixture is thoroughly blended and the sugar has dissolved . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat until the oil shimmers . Dip the chicken breasts into the flour mixture , then into the egg mixture , and gently lay them into the skillet . Pan-fry the chicken breasts until golden brown and no longer pink in the middle , about 6 minutes on each side . Remove from the skillet and set aside . In the same skillet over medium-low heat , melt the butter , and stir in garlic , sherry , lemon juice , and chicken base . Bring the sauce to a simmer , and stir until smooth and slightly thickened , about 5 minutes . Be sure to dissolve any brown flavor bits from the bottom of the skillet as you stir . Return the chicken breasts to the sauce , and gently simmer until no longer pink in the center , about 15 minutes . To serve , place a chicken breast on a plate , and top with sauce . 
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips 2 cups heavy cream 2 teaspoons vanilla extract  | Place chocolate chips in a large bowl , or in the bowl of a stand mixer . Pour the cream into a saucepan , and bring to a boil . As soon as the cream boils up to the top of the pan , quickly remove it from the heat , and pour it over the chips . Let stand for a minute or two , then stir with a whisk , or use the paddle attachment for the mixer , to mix until smooth . Be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl occasionally . Stir in the vanilla until well blended . Place a piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface , and allow to cool at room temperature , or in the refrigerator . 
1/4 cup coarsely crushed black peppercorns 4 (6 ounce) 1 1/2 inch thick filet mignon steaks salt to taste 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon olive oil 1/3 cup beef broth 1 cup heavy cream  | Place the peppercorns into a shallow bowl . Sprinkle the beef tenderloin filets with salt on both sides , and coat both sides with crushed peppercorns . Melt the butter with the olive oil over high heat in a heavy skillet (not nonstick) until the foam disappears from the butter . Gently place the steaks in the pan , and cook until they start to become firm and are reddish-pink and juicy in the center , about 3 1/2 minutes per side . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C) . Remove the steaks to platter , and cover tightly with foil . Pour the beef broth into the skillet , and use a whisk to stir the broth and scrape up any dissolved brown flavor bits from the skillet . Whisk in the cream , and simmer the sauce until it's reduced and thickened , 6 to 7 minutes . Place the steaks back in the skillet , turn to coat with sauce , and serve with the remaining sauce . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into chunks 1 onion , quartered and thinly sliced 2 large cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 2 (15 ounce) cans cannellini beans , drained and rinsed 1 pound turkey kielbasa , cut into 1/2-inch slices 1/3 cup dry white wine  | Place the chicken into the bottom of a slow cooker . Stir together the onion , garlic , parsley , salt , pepper , cannellini beans , and turkey kielbasa in a large bowl . Pour the mixture over the chicken in the slow cooker , and pour the wine over all the ingredients . Cover , set the cooker to Low , and cook until the chicken is very tender and the cassoulet is thickened , 5 to 6 hours . 
1 bunch fresh asparagus spears , trimmed 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon dried Herbes de Provence sea salt and pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil . Toss the asparagus with olive oil , Herbes de Provence , salt , and pepper . Spread the asparagus onto the baking sheet in a single layer . Roast in preheated oven until tender and lightly browned , about 12 minutes . 
1 tablespoon butter 4 whole boneless , skinless chicken breast , cubed 1/4 cup white wine 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1/2 cup shredded Swiss cheese 1/2 cup diced ham  | In a 10 inch skillet over medium high heat cook the chicken breasts in the butter for 10 minutes or until browned . Remove chicken and set aside . In the same skillet add the wine and stir to deglaze the pan . Add the soup , cheese and ham . Heat to boiling , stirring often . Return chicken to skillet . Reduce heat to low . Cover and cook for 5 to 7 minutes or until chicken is completely cooked , stirring occasionally . Serve over hot cooked egg noodles if desired . 
6 bone-in , skin-on chicken thighs 1 pinch kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 8 ounces bacon , sliced crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces 10 large button mushrooms , quartered 1/2 large yellow onion , diced 2 shallots , sliced 2 teaspoons all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons butter 1 1/2 cups red wine 6 sprigs fresh thyme 1 cup chicken broth  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Season chicken thighs all over with salt and black pepper . Place bacon in a large , oven-proof skillet and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Transfer bacon with a slotted spoon to a paper-towel lined plate , leaving drippings in the skillet . Increase heat to high and place chicken , skin-side down , into skillet . Cook in hot skillet until browned , 2 to 4 minutes per side . Transfer chicken to a plate ; drain and discard all but 1 tablespoon drippings from the skillet . Lower heat to medium-high ; saute mushrooms , onion , and shallots with a pinch of salt in the hot skillet until golden and caramelized , 7 to 12 minutes . Stir flour and butter into vegetable mixture until completely incorporated , about 1 minute . Pour red wine into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping browned bits of food off of the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Stir bacon and thyme into red wine mixture ; simmer until wine is about 1/3 reduced , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour chicken broth into wine mixture and set chicken thighs into skillet ; bring wine and stock to a simmer . Cook chicken in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Spoon pan juices over the chicken and continue cooking until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear , about 30 minutes more . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh , near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Transfer chicken to a platter . Place skillet over high heat and reduce pan juices , skimming fat off the top as necessary , until sauce thickens slightly , about 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper ; remove and discard thyme . Pour sauce over chicken . 
3 large whole russet potatoes 2 tablespoons high-heat-resistant vegetable oil , such as grapeseed oil salt and ground black pepper to taste 3 tablespoons butter 4 sprigs thyme , plus more for garnish 1/2 cup chicken broth , or more as needed  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Cut off ends of russet potatoes , stand potatoes on end , and peel potatoes from top to bottom with a sharp knife to make each potato into a uniform cylinder . Cut each cylinder in half crosswise to make 6 potato cylinders about 2 inches long . Place potatoes into a bowl of cold water for about 5 minutes to remove starch from outsides ; pat dry with paper towels . Place a heavy oven-proof skillet (such as a cast iron skillet) over high heat . Pour in vegetable oil ; heat oil until it shimmers slightly . Place potato cylinders with best-looking ends into the hot oil , lower heat to medium-high , and pan-fry potatoes until well-browned , 5 to 6 minutes . Season with salt and black pepper . Flip the potatoes onto the opposite ends . As they cook , use a paper towel held with tongs to carefully blot out the oil from the skillet . Add butter and thyme sprigs to skillet . Pick up a thyme sprig with tongs and use it to paint butter over the top of the potatoes . Cook until butter foams and foam turns from white to a pale tan color . Season with more salt and pepper . Pour chicken stock into skillet . Transfer skillet to preheated oven and cook until potatoes are tender and creamy inside , about 30 minutes . If potatoes aren't tender , add 1/4 cup more stock and let cook 10 more minutes . Place potatoes on a serving platter and spoon thyme-scented butter remaining in skillet over potatoes . Garnish with thyme sprigs . Let cool about 5 minutes before serving . 
2/3 cup ketchup 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup white wine vinegar 1/2 cup vegetable oil 1 small onion , quartered 2 teaspoons paprika 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce  | Prepare the dressing by combining the ketchup , sugar , vinegar , oil , onion , paprika and Worcestershire sauce in a blender or food processor . Blend until the onion is well chopped . Chill and serve . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (4 pound) whole chicken , cut into pieces 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1 1/2 cups red wine 1 1/2 cups chicken stock 1 onion 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/3 cup water  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Season chicken parts with salt , pepper and garlic powder and saute until lightly browned , about 5 to 7 minutes . Place wine in a shallow dish or bowl . Dip chicken pieces into wine , one at a time , and return to skillet . Add any remaining wine , stock and onions , stir together and reduce heat to medium . Cover skillet and cook for 30 minutes or until chicken is cooked through and no longer pink inside . In a small bowl , mix together cornstarch and water and add mixture to sauce to thicken ; cook an additional 2 to 3 minutes and serve . 
1/2 cup white sugar 5 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 2 cups milk 2 egg yolks , beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/2 cup shortening 1 cup water 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 4 eggs  | For the custard : In a small saucepan , combine 1/2 cup sugar , 5 tablespoons flour and a pinch of salt . Stir in milk , a little at a time , until smooth . Bring to a boil over medium heat , stirring constantly . Boil 60 seconds , then pour a small amount of hot liquid into the 2 egg yolks , and stir . Then return now heated egg yolks to saucepan and stir , over heat , until mixture starts to bubble again . Remove from heat , add vanilla . Cover and chill in refrigerator . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . For the pastry : In a medium saucepan , combine shortening and water and bring to a boil . Sift together 1 cup flour and a pinch of salt and pour all at once into boiling mixture . Stir vigorously until mixture forms a ball . Remove from heat , and add eggs , one at a time , stirring vigorously after each addition . Drop by spoonfuls onto baking sheet , or pipe into desired shape . Bake 10 minutes in the preheated oven , then reduce heat to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) and bake 25 minutes more , or until golden . Cool completely , split , fill with custard , and replace tops . 
1 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 3 tablespoons warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 2/3 cup warm milk 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2/3 cup unsalted butter , chilled 1 egg 1 tablespoon water  | Combine yeast , warm water , and 1 teaspoon sugar . Allow to stand until creamy and frothy . Measure flour into a mixing bowl . Dissolve 2 teaspoons sugar and salt in warm milk . Blend into flour along with yeast and oil . Mix well ; knead until smooth . Cover , and let rise until over triple in volume . Deflate gently , and let rise again until doubled . Deflate and chill 20 minutes . Massage butter until pliable , but not soft and oily . Pat dough into a 14 x 8 inch rectangle . Smear butter over top two thirds , leaving 1/4 inch margin all around . Fold unbuttered third over middle third , and buttered top third down over that . Turn 90 degrees , so that folds are to left and right . Roll out to a 14 x 6 inch rectangle . Fold in three again . Sprinkle lightly with flour , and put dough in a plastic bag . Refrigerate 2 hours . Unwrap , sprinkle with flour , and deflate gently . Roll to a 14 x 6 inch rectangle , and fold again . Turn 90 degrees , and repeat . Wrap , and chill 2 hours . To shape , roll dough out to a 20 x 5 inch rectangle . Cut in half crosswise , and chill half while shaping the other half . Roll out to a 15 x 5 inch rectangle . Cut into three 5 x 5 inch squares . Cut each square in half diagonally . Roll each triangle lightly to elongate the point , and make it 7 inches long . Grab the other 2 points , and stretch them out slightly as you roll it up . Place on a baking sheet , curving slightly . Let shaped croissants rise until puffy and light . In a small bowl , beat together egg and 1 tablespoon water . Glaze croissants with egg wash . Bake in a preheated 475 degrees F (245 degrees C) oven for 12 to 15 minutes . 
1/2 cup shortening 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiling water 1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 4 eggs  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . In medium saucepan , combine shortening , salt and boiling water and heat until entire mixture boils . Reduce heat , add flour all at once and stir vigorously until mixture forms a ball . Remove from heat and add eggs , one at a time , beating thoroughly after each addition . Continue beating until mixture is thick and shiny and breaks from spoon . Pipe or spoon onto ungreased cookie sheet and bake 20 minutes , reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and bake 20 minutes more , or until golden and sound hollow when tapped . Cool and fill . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 1 egg 2 cups milk  | In a mixing bowl , combine flour , egg , and milk . Heat a large skillet or crepe pan over a medium-high heat . Spray the pan with non-stick cooking spray . Pour about 1/3 cup of batter into the pan , lift the pan and turn it by rotating your wrist , spreading a PAPER THIN amount in the pan . Flip the crepe when it starts to bubble . When it is finished cooking , remove it and repeat this process with the remaining batter . 
1/4 cup butter 1 1/2 pounds chicken breast tenderloins or strips salt and pepper to taste 1 pint heavy cream  | Melt half of the butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Season chicken tenders with salt and pepper , and saute them in butter until golden on all sides , about 10 minutes . Add the remaining butter , reduce heat to medium , and cook for 5 more minutes . Pour the heavy cream into the skillet , and simmer gently for 5 minutes , stirring occasionally , until the sauce has thickened and chicken is cooked through . Best when served with fresh French bread for dipping . 
3 tablespoons Dijon mustard 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons dried tarragon 2 teaspoons dried basil 2 teaspoons dried thyme 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 boneless , skinless chicken breast halves 1 cup white wine  | In a small bowl , blend Dijon mustard and honey . Mix in the tarragon , basil , thyme , salt , and pepper . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Place chicken in the skillet , and brush on both sides with the Dijon mustard mixture . Pour 1/4 cup wine around the chicken . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer about 10 minutes , until liquid is reduced . Pour another 1/4 cup wine around the chicken , and continue to cook about 5 minutes , until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear . Remove from heat , reserving remaining liquid . Mix remaining wine into the skillet . Increase heat to medium , and scrape up browned bits . Cook and stir until liquid is reduced by about 1/3 . Serve as a sauce over the chicken . 
1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons shallot , minced 1 teaspoon minced garlic (optional) 3 tablespoons butter 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 1 cup beef broth 1/3 cup red wine 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 bay leaf 1/4 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme , or to taste salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons cold water  | Melt 1 tablespoon of butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the garlic and shallot , and cook until the shallot has softened and turned translucent , about 3 minutes . Add the remaining 3 tablespoons of butter , then stir in the mushrooms once the butter has melted . Cook and stir the mushrooms until they begin to soften , about 5 minutes . Pour in the beef broth , wine , and Worcestershire sauce ; season with the bay leaf and thyme , and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat . Once simmering , season to taste with salt and pepper , reduce the heat to medium-low , and continue to cook , uncovered until the sauce reduces slightly , about 30 minutes . Dissolve the cornstarch in the cold water , and stir into the simmering sauce until thickened . Remove the bay leaf before serving . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 6 slices Swiss cheese 6 slices ham 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon paprika 6 tablespoons butter 1/2 cup dry white wine 1 teaspoon chicken bouillon granules 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup heavy whipping cream  | Pound chicken breasts if they are too thick . Place a cheese and ham slice on each breast within 1/2 inch of the edges . Fold the edges of the chicken over the filling , and secure with toothpicks . Mix the flour and paprika in a small bowl , and coat the chicken pieces . Heat the butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat , and cook the chicken until browned on all sides . Add the wine and bouillon . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 30 minutes , until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear . Remove the toothpicks , and transfer the breasts to a warm platter . Blend the cornstarch with the cream in a small bowl , and whisk slowly into the skillet . Cook , stirring until thickened , and pour over the chicken . Serve warm . 
1 (2.2 pound) wheel Brie cheese 2 teaspoons ground curry powder 1 (12 ounce) jar mango chutney 1 cup chopped cashews 1 French baguette , cut into 1/2 inch slices  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Sprinkle curry powder over top and sides of Brie ; rub the curry powder into the rind to thoroughly coat the surface . Place the Brie wheel in a large pie plate or oven proof dish . Spread a generous layer of chutney over the top , and evenly sprinkle with cashews . Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until cashews are slightly golden and cheese inside the rind is melted . Serve with slices of baguette . 
5 tablespoons butter 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 quart milk 2 teaspoons salt 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg  | Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium heat . Once melted , stir in the flour until smooth . Continue stirring as the flour cooks to a light , golden , sandy color , about 7 minutes . Increase heat to medium-high and slowly whisk in milk until thickened by the roux . Bring to a gentle simmer , then reduce heat to medium-low and continue simmering until the flour has softened and not longer tastes gritty , 10 to 20 minutes , then season with salt and nutmeg . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 medium shallots , finely chopped 2 cups water 3 cups fresh shelled green peas salt and pepper to taste 3 tablespoons whipping cream (optional)  | Melt the butter in a heavy-bottomed saucepan over medium heat . Cook the shallots until soft and translucent , about 3 minutes . Pour in the water and peas , season to taste with salt and pepper . Increase the heat to medium-high , bring to a boil , then reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until the peas are tender , 12 to 18 minutes . Puree the peas in a blender or food processor in batches . Strain back into the saucepan , stir in the cream if using , and reheat . Season to taste with salt and pepper before serving . 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 2 tablespoons butter , melted 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 eggs  | In a large bowl , sift together flour , sugar , baking powder and salt . Stir in the remaining ingredients ; mix until smooth . Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat . Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle , using approximately 1/4 cup for each crepe . Tilt the pan with a circular motion so that the batter coats the surface evenly . Cook the crepe for about 2 minutes , until the bottom is light brown . Loosen with a spatula , turn and cook the other side . Stack the finished crepes by putting wax paper between each one . Keep covered with a dry cloth until ready to eat . 
2 2/3 cups confectioners' sugar 2/3 cup butter , softened 2 (1 ounce) squares unsweetened chocolate , melted 3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 tablespoons milk  | In a medium bowl , blend confectioners sugar , butter , melted chocolate and vanilla on low speed . Increase speed to high . Gradually add milk ; beat until smooth and fluffy . 
1 pound onions , sliced 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 (14 ounce) cans beef broth 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 pinch ground black pepper 6 slices French bread , toasted 2/3 cup shredded Swiss cheese  | Cook and stir onions in vegetable oil in a covered large saucepan over medium heat for 20 minutes . Stir in the beef broth , Worcestershire sauce and black pepper ; heat to a boil . Remove from heat . Place bread on a baking sheet ; sprinkle bread with cheese . Broil 4-to-5 inches from heat for about 1 minute or until cheese is melted and golden . Ladle soup into bowls and top with bread . 
1/2 cup whole wheat flour 2 egg whites 1/2 cup skim milk 1 pinch salt 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 cup mixed frozen berries , thawed and drained 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar for dusting  | Whisk together the wheat flour , egg whites , milk , salt , and oil in a large bowl until smooth . Lightly coat a skillet with cooking spray and place over medium heat . Pour 1/4 cup of the batter into the skillet . Tilt the pan in a circular motion to allow the batter to spread to the edges . Cook until the bottom is light brown , about 2 minutes . Flip the crepe and place 2 tablespoons of the mixed berries in the center of the crepe ; cook another 2 minutes . Fold the crepe in half and remove with a spatula to a serving plate . Dust with confectioners' sugar and serve . 
1 cup light beer or dry white wine 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves salt and black pepper to taste 1 teaspoon dried oregano , or to taste 8 ounces Brie cheese  | Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Pour the beer or wine into a glass baking dish large enough to lay out the chicken . Season the chicken with salt , pepper and oregano on both sides , and place in the dish . Bake for 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven , or until juices run clear . While chicken is baking , slice Brie with the rind into 1/4 inch thick slices . When chicken is done , place slices of Brie over the top . Return to the oven for 3 to 5 minutes , until cheese is melted . Voila , chicken with Brie sauce is complete ! 
1 cup water 1/2 cup butter 1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 4 eggs 1 pint heavy cream 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . In medium saucepan , bring water to a boil . Add butter and stir as it melts , then return to a boil . Add flour and salt all at once and stir vigorously until mixture forms a ball . Remove from heat and add eggs , one at a time , stirring vigorously after each until smooth . Drop by heaping tablespoons , 3 inches apart , on a cookie sheet . Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven then reduce heat to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) and bake 25 minutes more . Remove puffs from oven , split and remove soft dough from center . Turn oven off , and replace puffs to dry in cooling oven , 20 minutes more . Cool completely on wire rack . In medium bowl , whip cream with electric mixer until stiff peaks form . Stir in vanilla and sugar . Fill puffs with whipped cream . Melt chocolate chips in microwave or slowly over low heat . Drizzle melted chocolate over tops of cream puffs . Serve immediately . 
2 1/4 cups white sugar 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 6 eggs 1 cup buttermilk 1/2 cup margarine , melted 1 cup flaked coconut 1 cup chopped pecans 2 prepared 8 inch pastry shells  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a small bowl , mix together the sugar and flour . In a large bowl , mix the eggs with a wire whisk . Whisk flour mixture into eggs , until smooth . Stir in buttermilk , margarine , coconut and pecans . Pour into unbaked pie crusts . Bake in preheated oven for 45 minutes . If making a 9 inch deep dish pie , bake for 1 hour . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 6 skinless chicken thighs 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 3 medium tomatoes , sliced 4 portobello mushrooms , sliced 1 pinch salt (optional) 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 sweet onion , chopped 1/3 cup Burgundy wine 1 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup shredded Gruyere cheese 2 tablespoons cornstarch (optional)  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the chicken thighs , crushed garlic , and Italian seasoning . Brown the chicken thighs on both sides , then add the tomatoes and portobello mushrooms . Season with salt and pepper . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for about 30 minutes . Strain off about half of the liquid from the skillet , and pour in the Burgundy wine . Cover , and simmer for another 30 minutes . Remove the chicken , tomatoes and mushrooms to a 8 or 9 inch square baking dish . Cover with sliced onion , and set aside . Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bring the liquid remaining in the skillet to the boiling point over medium-low heat . Gently whisk in the heavy cream and Gruyere cheese . Remove from the heat , and stir until smooth . If the sauce is not thick enough , whisk in the cornstarch , and simmer over very low heat until it thickens . Pour the sauce over the chicken in the baking dish . Bake for 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until onions are tender . Let rest for 5 minutes before serving . 
1 (17.25 ounce) package frozen puff pastry , thawed 6 tablespoons chocolate hazelnut spread 3 tablespoons all fruit raspberry jam 1 egg , beaten 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting (optional)  | Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Unfold the puff pastry sheets on a lightly floured surface . Cut each one into thirds along the fold lines . Roll each strip of dough out to about 16 inches long , and cut strips into thirds . Spread some of the hazelnut spread onto one half of each rectangle to within 1/2 inch of the edge . Spread about 1/2 teaspoon of the raspberry jam over the hazelnut spread . Brush the edges with egg , and fold over the other side to enclose the filling . Press the edges firmly to seal . Repeat with the remaining rectangles . Use a sharp knife to cut 5 slits across the top of each pastry , and place them on baking sheets , spacing 2 inches apart . Bake for 18 minutes in the preheated oven , or until golden brown . Cool on racks . Dust with confectioners' sugar when cooled if desired . 
For the Poolish : 1/2 teaspoon instant yeast 1/2 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3/4 cup whole wheat flour For the Dough : 2 1/2 cups warm water 1/2 teaspoon instant yeast 6 cups unbleached bread flour 1 tablespoon kosher salt 2 tablespoons cornmeal for dusting  | To make the sponge , whisk the 1/2 teaspoon yeast in 1/2 cup warm water . Stir in the whole wheat flour until the mixture resembles a thick batter . Beat for about 100 strokes to form longs strands of gluten . Cover the bowl with a damp cloth and let sit at room temperature for 2 to 8 hours (longer is better for flavor development) . You can also let the poolish ripen in the refrigerator for 12 to 15 hours , bringing it back to room temperature before proceeding with the recipe . When the poolish is ready , it will be bubbly and loose , with a yeasty , sour aroma . Scrape the poolish into a bowl and stir in the 2 1/2 cups water and the remaining 1/2 teaspoon yeast . Stir well to combine . Add the bread flour 1 cup at a time , mixing well after each addition , until the dough becomes too difficult to stir . Transfer the dough to a floured work surface and knead for 10 to 12 minutes , adding more flour only when the dough becomes too sticky to handle . Sprinkle the salt over the dough and knead it for an additional 5 to 7 minutes . The dough should have a smooth surface and spring back to the touch . Shape the dough into a round and cover with a damp cloth for 5 to 10 minutes . Place the dough in an oiled bowl , turning to coat the surface of the dough with oil . Cover the dough with a damp cloth and let it rise at room temperature until doubled in size , about 2 to 3 hours . Deflate the dough and cut it into two pieces . Shape the dough into two rounds , cover them with plastic or a damp cloth , and allow the dough to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature . Shape the dough into baguettes . Place a heavily floured cloth on a baking sheet , arranging a fold down the center to separate the loaves . Place the loaves , seam-side up , on the floured cloth . Dust the tops of the loaves with flour , cover with a damp towel , and let rise until doubled in bulk again , about two hours . Preheat an oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Sprinkle a baking sheet with cornmeal . Gently transfer the risen loaves to the baking sheet , placing them seam-side down on the cornmeal . Make several diagonal slashes in the loaf with a serrated knife or razor blade . Immediately place the scored loaves in the preheated oven . Bake the bread until the loaves are golden brown , about 25 to 30 minutes . Cool the loaves on wire racks . 
1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon olive oil 4 large onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 2 (14 ounce) cans beef broth 1/2 cup white wine 1 1/2 cups water 2 bay leaves 6 slices French bread 1 cup shredded Swiss cheese  | In a large saucepan over low heat , melt butter with olive oil . Cook onions in mixture , stirring occasionally , for 30 minutes , until very soft , translucent and brown on the edges . Sprinkle the flour over the onions and stir to combine . Pour in beef broth , wine and water with bay leaves . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat and simmer , uncovered , 20 to 30 minutes . Preheat oven broiler . Toast the bread slices . Ladle the soup into 6 ovenproof bowls and place the bowls on a baking sheet . Place a toasted slice of bread over each bowl and top with Swiss cheese . Place bowls under broiler until cheese is melted . 
1 (14 ounce) round Brie cheese 1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated crescent roll dough 1 1/2 cups honey 1 1/2 cups pecan halves  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Unwrap the wheel of Brie , and crescent rolls . Unroll the crescent roll dough , and wrap around the Brie . Press seams together to seal in the cheese . Place in a 9x9 inch baking dish . Sprinkle pecan halves over the top , and drizzle honey over the whole thing . Bake for 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown and cheese is soft . Serve with apple slices or cornbread crackers . 
1/3 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3 eggs 2 egg yolks 3/4 cup butter , softened 3 1/3 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon active dry yeast 1 egg white 2 tablespoons water  | Place the first seven ingredients in bread machine in order suggested by your manufacturer . Select dough cycle . Turn finished dough out onto a lightly floured board and knead 5 to 10 times . Separate into 2 or 3 pieces . Roll with hands into strips . Braid or twist strips together . Place onto a parchment lined baking sheet . Set aside to rise in a warm place until doubled in size . Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Whisk together 1 egg white and the water . Brush onto the top of the loaf . Bake in the preheated oven until deep golden brown , about 20 minutes . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/4 inch thickness garlic salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1/2 pound thinly sliced ham 4 slices Swiss cheese 8 slices bacon 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Sprinkle each flattened breast with garlic salt and pepper to taste on both sides . Lay a slice of ham onto each breast , then a slice of Swiss cheese . Roll each breast up like a cinnamon roll . Secure with a toothpick if necessary . Wrap a piece of bacon loosely around each roll . Place the rolled breasts in a 2 quart glass baking dish and pour in chicken broth . Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the juices run clear . Broil for a few minutes before serving to crisp up the bacon . 
1/2 cup butter 5 pounds onions , thinly sliced 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons paprika 1 bay leaf 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 3 quarts beef broth 1 cup white wine (optional) 1 dash browning sauce 1 loaf French bread , cut into 1 inch slices 2 cups shredded Swiss cheese  | Melt the butter in a large pot over low heat . Add the onions ; cook , stirring occasionally for 1 1/2 hours . When the onions are ready , add the pepper , salt , bay leaf and flour . Stir over low heat for 10 minutes . Pour in the beef broth and white wine . Simmer for 2 hours over low heat . Adjust the coloring to a rich brown with the browning sauce . Taste , and adjust salt if needed . Preheat your oven's broiler . Ladle the soup into oven-proof bowls , and place them on a baking sheet . Float a slice of French bread in each bowl , and top with some Swiss cheese . Broil until cheese is browned . Serve immediately . 
1/2 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 2 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup white sugar 1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 5 egg yolks 4 tablespoons white sugar  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Place about 2 tablespoons of the chocolate chips into each of four 6 ounce ramekins . Place them in the microwave , and heat on full power for 30 second intervals . Stir , and continue heating until chocolate has melted . Spread to cover the sides and bottom of each ramekin . Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Meanwhile , in a saucepan , whisk together the cream , 1/4 cup sugar , and salt . Set over medium heat , and warm until steam rises from the surface . Then in a separate bowl , whisk together the egg yolks and vanilla . When the cream is hot , ladle a little bit into the egg yolks while whisking quickly . Ladle in a bit more to bring the yolks up to a high temperature without scrambling them . Whisk the yolk mixture into the rest of the cream . Ladle into the chocolate lined ramekins . Place a towel in the bottom of a baking dish , and place the filled ramekins on top of the towel . Place in the oven , and pour boiling water carefully into the baking dish until it comes half way up the sides of the ramekins . Cover the dish loosely with aluminum foil . Bake for 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven , just until the custard is set . Remove ramekins from the dish , and refrigerate for 4 to 6 hours . Before serving , sprinkle 1 tablespoon of sugar over the top of each creme brulee . Use a kitchen torch or your oven's broiler to caramelize the sugar . It may take 2 to 3 minutes in the broiler . Serve immediately . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/4 cup white wine salt and pepper to taste 1 (8 ounce) package pasta , your choice of shape 1 large white onion , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 2 (8 ounce) packages sliced fresh mushrooms 2 cups creme fraiche 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese for topping 3 tablespoons sour cream  | In a large skillet , saute chicken breasts in oil over medium high heat . Once breasts are browned , add white wine and salt and pepper to taste . Let simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear . Meanwhile , To Cook Pasta : Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil . Add pasta to boiling water , cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente . Drain . When chicken is cooked , remove from skillet and cube . Set aside . Saute onion and garlic in remaining juices . Once onions are translucent , add mushrooms and saute until soft . Add cubed chicken , creme fraiche and sour cream (to desired thickness) . Stir all together and heat through . Put hot cooked pasta on plate , top with chicken and sauce and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese . 
1 clove garlic , chopped 1 3/4 cups whole , pitted kalamata olives 1 (2 ounce) can anchovy fillets , rinsed 2 tablespoons capers 1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary 3 tablespoons lemon juice 4 tablespoons olive oil  | Combine garlic , olives , anchovies , capers , thyme , rosemary and lemon juice in an electric blender . Slowly drip the olive oil into the blender while you are blending the ingredients together . Blend until a paste is formed . 
1 quart vegetable oil for frying 1 (10.25 ounce) can beef gravy 5 medium potatoes , cut into fries 2 cups cheese curds  | Heat oil in a deep fryer or deep heavy skillet to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C) . While the oil is heating , you can begin to warm your gravy . Place the fries into the hot oil , and cook until light brown , about 5 minutes . Make the fries in batches if necessary to allow them room to move a little in the oil . Remove to a paper towel lined plate to drain . Place the fries on a serving platter , and sprinkle the cheese over them . Ladle gravy over the fries and cheese , and serve immediately . 
6 cups tart apples - peeled , cored and sliced 1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 cup white sugar 3/4 cup milk 1/2 cup biscuit mix (e.g . Bisquick) 2 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup biscuit mix (e.g . Bisquick) 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/3 cup light brown sugar 3 tablespoons butter  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease a 10 inch pie pan . In a large bowl , mix apples , cinnamon and nutmeg together ; turn mixture into pan . In a separate bowl , beat sugar , milk , 1/2 cup biscuit mix , eggs and butter until smooth . Pour over apples . To Make Streusel : In a small bowl , stir together 1 cup biscuit mix , nuts , brown sugar and butter ; mix until crumbly . Sprinkle streusel over top of pie . Bake in preheated oven for 55 to 60 minutes ; bake until knife inserted in center of pie comes out clean . 
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 2 cups bread flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon butter , softened 17 tablespoons warm water 1 tablespoon dried rosemary , crushed 2 teaspoons minced garlic  | Place ingredients in the pan of the bread machine in the order recommended by the manufacturer . Select cycle ; press Start . 
1 cup chocolate hazelnut spread 4 crepes 4 bananas , sliced 1 (7 ounce) can pressurized whipped cream  | Spread 1/4 cup of chocolate hazelnut spread onto each crepe . Arrange 1 sliced banana down the center of each one . Roll up , and place in a warm skillet over medium heat . Let them warm up for about 90 seconds . Transfer to plates , and serve topped with whipped cream . 
1/4 teaspoon softened butter 2 teaspoons heavy cream 2 eggs salt and pepper to taste 1 teaspoon minced fresh chives 1 teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Rub the inside of a 6 ounce ramekin with butter . Pour cream into the ramekin , then crack the eggs on top of the cream without breaking the yolks . Use a spoon to position the yolks towards the center of the ramekin , then sprinkle with salt , pepper , chives , and Parmesan cheese . Bake in preheated oven until the whites of the eggs have set and the yolks are still soft , 12 to 15 minutes . Remove from oven , and allow to set for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . 
1 cup beef broth 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1 teaspoon beef demi glace 3 tablespoons bacon drippings 2 pounds beef round , cut into 3 inch pieces 3 tablespoons sherry wine 1 1/2 cups chopped onions 1 cup Burgundy wine Herb Bouquet (Bouquet Garni) 3 sprigs fresh parsley 3 sprigs fresh rosemary 1 sprig fresh thyme 1 bay leaf 12 fresh mushrooms , sliced 1/4 cup butter 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley , for garnish  | In a small bowl , mix together beef broth , flour , tomato paste and demi glace ; set aside . Heat bacon drippings in a large heavy skillet over medium heat . Add beef , and cook until brown on all sides . Remove beef from skillet ; set aside . Stir the sherry wine into the skillet . Add the onions , and cook about 5 minutes . Blend in the tomato paste mixture , and bring to a rapid boil , stirring constantly . Stir in Burgundy wine . Make the herb bouquet : Place parsley , rosemary , thyme , and bay leaf in a square of cheesecloth . Place herb bouquet in sauce . Return beef to skillet . Cover , and simmer over low heat for about 3 hours , or until beef is tender . Melt butter in a small skillet over medium heat . Saute mushrooms until lightly browned . Add to meat in the skillet , and continue cooking 15 minutes . Discard bouquet garni . Serve in a casserole dish , sprinkled with parsley . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 (8 ounce) (1 inch thick) filet mignon steaks 1/2 teaspoon sea salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon butter 1 large shallot , chopped 12 ounces sliced fresh white mushrooms 1 cup Cabernet Sauvignon or other dry red wine 1/2 cup beef broth 1 1/2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons water  | Heat olive oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat . Sprinkle the filets with salt and pepper , gently place them into the hot skillet , and sear until well-browned on each side , about 2 minutes per side . Remove the steaks to a platter , tent with aluminum foil , and keep warm . Turn the heat down to medium , and melt the butter . Cook and stir the shallot and mushrooms in the butter until the mushrooms begin to give off their liquid and the shallots are translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the wine , beef broth , and thyme , and simmer the sauce until it begins to reduce , 6 to 10 minutes . Return the steaks to the sauce , and simmer briefly until they start to become firm and are reddish-pink and juicy in the center , about 2 to 4 minutes per side (for medium-rare.) An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C) . Remove the steaks to serving dishes . In a small bowl , stir the cornstarch and water until it forms a smooth paste . Stir the cornstarch mixture into the pan sauce , and cook and stir until thickened , about 30 seconds . Top each serving with mushroom-wine sauce to serve . 
4 eggs 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cloves 15 slices whole wheat bread 1 cup butter , divided 1 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting  | In a medium bowl , whisk together the eggs , cinnamon , nutmeg , ginger , and cloves . Melt about 1 tablespoon of butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Dip slices of bread one at a time into the egg , quickly coating each side but not fully saturating the bread . Fry a few slices at a time in the buttered skillet until golden brown on each side . Add more butter to the skillet and continue with remaining slices . Melt remaining butter in the microwave at 15 second intervals . Place finished toast onto plates , drizzle with melted butter , and dust with confectioners' sugar . 
1/2 cup soy milk 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup melted soy margarine 1 tablespoon turbinado sugar 2 tablespoons maple syrup 1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt  | In a large mixing bowl , blend soy milk , water , 1/4 cup margarine , sugar , syrup , flour , and salt . Cover and chill the mixture for 2 hours . Lightly grease a 5 to 6 inch skillet with some soy margarine . Heat the skillet until hot . Pour approximately 3 tablespoons batter into the skillet . Swirl to make the batter cover the skillet's bottom . Cook until golden , flip and cook on opposite side . 
