1 cup whole wheat flour 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 3/4 cup hot water or as needed  | In a large bowl , stir together the whole wheat flour , all-purpose flour and salt . Use a wooden spoon to stir in the olive oil and enough water to make a soft dough that is elastic but not sticky . Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface until it is smooth . Divide into 10 parts , or less if you want bigger breads . Roll each piece into a ball . Let rest for a few minutes . Heat a skillet over medium heat until hot , and grease lightly . On a lightly floured surface , use a floured rolling pin to roll out the balls of dough until very thin like a tortilla . When the pan starts smoking , put a chapati on it . Cook until the underside has brown spots , about 30 seconds , then flip and cook on the other side . Continue with remaining dough . 
1 cup halved grape tomatoes 1 cup diced cucumber 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Mix grape tomatoes , cucumber , green onions , cilantro , lemon juice , mint , salt , and pepper together in a large bowl . 
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 cup warm water 1/4 cup white sugar 3 tablespoons milk 1 egg , beaten 2 teaspoons salt 4 1/2 cups bread flour 2 teaspoons minced garlic (optional) 1/4 cup butter , melted  | In a large bowl , dissolve yeast in warm water . Let stand about 10 minutes , until frothy . Stir in sugar , milk , egg , salt , and enough flour to make a soft dough . Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface , or until smooth . Place dough in a well oiled bowl , cover with a damp cloth , and set aside to rise . Let it rise 1 hour , until the dough has doubled in volume . Punch down dough , and knead in garlic . Pinch off small handfuls of dough about the size of a golf ball . Roll into balls , and place on a tray . Cover with a towel , and allow to rise until doubled in size , about 30 minutes . During the second rising , preheat grill to high heat . At grill side , roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle . Lightly oil grill . Place dough on grill , and cook for 2 to 3 minutes , or until puffy and lightly browned . Brush uncooked side with butter , and turn over . Brush cooked side with butter , and cook until browned , another 2 to 4 minutes . Remove from grill , and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared . 
1/2 cup chopped onion 2 stalks celery , chopped 1 carrot , diced 1/4 cup butter 1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 4 cups chicken broth 1/2 apple , cored and chopped 1/4 cup white rice 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half - cut into cubes salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch dried thyme 1/2 cup heavy cream , heated  | Saute onions , celery , carrot , and butter in a large soup pot . Add flour and curry , and cook 5 more minutes . Add chicken stock , mix well , and bring to a boil . Simmer about 1/2 hour . Add apple , rice , chicken , salt , pepper , and thyme . Simmer 15-20 minutes , or until rice is done . When serving , add hot cream . 
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 small onion , diced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 potatoes , cubed 4 carrots , cubed 1 fresh jalapeno pepper , seeded and sliced 3 tablespoons ground unsalted cashews 1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 teaspoons salt 1 1/2 tablespoons curry powder 1 cup frozen green peas 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 cup heavy cream 1 bunch fresh cilantro for garnish  | Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , and cook until tender . Mix in ginger and garlic , and continue cooking 1 minute . Mix potatoes , carrots , jalapeno , cashews , and tomato sauce . Season with salt and curry powder . Cook and stir 10 minutes , or until potatoes are tender . Stir peas , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , and cream into the skillet . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 10 minutes . Garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1 tablespoon peanut oil 1 shallot , finely chopped 1/4 white onion , chopped 2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 bay leaf 1/4 cup plain yogurt 1 cup half-and-half 1 cup tomato puree 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 1 pinch salt 1 pinch black pepper 1 tablespoon peanut oil 1 pound boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into bite-size pieces 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/4 cup water  | Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large saucepan over medium high heat . Saute shallot and onion until soft and translucent . Stir in butter , lemon juice , ginger-garlic paste , 1 teaspoon garam masala , chili powder , cumin and bay leaf . Cook , stirring , for 1 minute . Add tomato sauce , and cook for 2 minutes , stirring frequently . Stir in half-and-half and yogurt . Reduce heat to low , and simmer for 10 minutes , stirring frequently . Season with salt pepper . Remove from heat and set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large heavy skillet over medium heat . Cook chicken until lightly browned , about 10 minutes . Reduce heat , and season with 1 teaspoon garam masala and cayenne . Stir in a few spoonfuls of sauce , and simmer until liquid has reduced , and chicken is no longer pink . Stir cooked chicken into sauce . Mix together cornstarch and water , then stir into the sauce . Cook for 5 to 10 minutes , or until thickened . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 small onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons curry powder 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon paprika 1 bay leaf 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon white sugar salt to taste 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1 cup plain yogurt 3/4 cup coconut milk 1/2 lemon , juiced 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper  | Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Saute onion until lightly browned . Stir in garlic , curry powder , cinnamon , paprika , bay leaf , ginger , sugar and salt . Continue stirring for 2 minutes . Add chicken pieces , tomato paste , yogurt , and coconut milk . Bring to a boil , reduce heat , and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes . Remove bay leaf , and stir in lemon juice and cayenne pepper . Simmer 5 more minutes . 
2 cups red lentils 1 large onion , diced 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 tablespoons curry paste 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger 1 (14.25 ounce) can tomato puree  | Wash the lentils in cold water until the water runs clear . Put lentils in a pot with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil , place a cover on the pot , reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer , adding water during cooking as needed to keep covered , until tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Drain . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir onions in hot oil until caramelized , about 20 minutes . Mix curry paste , curry powder , turmeric , cumin , chili powder , salt , sugar , garlic , and ginger together in a large bowl ; stir into the onions . Increase heat to high and cook , stirring constantly , until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in the tomato puree , remove from heat and stir into the lentils . 
2 tablespoons ghee (clarified butter) 1 onion , finely chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 (14 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 cup heavy whipping cream 2 teaspoons paprika 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into bite-size pieces 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste (optional) 1 teaspoon white sugar , or to taste (optional)  | Heat ghee in a large skillet over medium heat and cook and stir onion until translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in garlic ; cook and stir just until fragrant , about 1 minute . Stir cumin , 1 teaspoon salt , ginger , cayenne pepper , cinnamon , and turmeric into the onion mixture ; fry until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Stir tomato sauce into the onion and spice mixture , bring to a boil , and reduce heat to low . Simmer sauce for 10 minutes , then mix in cream , paprika , and 1 tablespoon sugar . Bring sauce back to a simmer and cook , stirring often , until sauce is thickened , 10 to 15 minutes . Heat vegetable oil in a separate skillet over medium heat . Stir chicken into the hot oil , sprinkle with curry powder , and sear chicken until lightly browned but still pink inside , about 3 minutes ; stir often . Transfer chicken and any pan juices into the sauce . Simmer chicken in sauce until no longer pink , about 30 minutes ; adjust salt and sugar to taste . 
1 cup butter , divided 1 onion , minced 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 3 cups heavy cream 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut into bite-sized chunks 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons tandoori masala  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Melt a few tablespoons of butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in onion and garlic , and cook slowly until the onion caramelizes to a dark brown , about 15 minutes . Meanwhile melt the remaining butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat along with the tomato sauce , heavy cream , salt , cayenne pepper , and garam masala . Bring to a simmer , then reduce heat to medium-low ; cover , and simmer for 30 minutes , stirring occasionally . Then stir in caramelized onions . While the sauce is simmering , toss cubed chicken breast with vegetable oil until coated , then season with tandoori masala and spread out onto a baking sheet . Bake chicken in preheated oven until no longer pink in the center , about 12 minutes . Once done , add the chicken to the sauce and simmer for 5 minutes before serving . 
4 potatoes , peeled and cubed 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 yellow onion , diced 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons cayenne pepper 4 teaspoons curry powder 4 teaspoons garam masala 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled and minced 2 teaspoons salt 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can peas , drained 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk  | Place potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until just tender , about 15 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Meanwhile , heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion and garlic ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Season with cumin , cayenne pepper , curry powder , garam masala , ginger , and salt ; cook for 2 minutes more . Add the tomatoes , garbanzo beans , peas , and potatoes . Pour in the coconut milk , and bring to a simmer . Simmer 5 to 10 minutes before serving . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 teaspoons salt 1/2 cup cooking oil 1 1/2 cups chopped onion 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 1/2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon water 1 (15 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 cup plain yogurt 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup water 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice  | Sprinkle the chicken breasts with 2 teaspoons salt . Heat the oil in a large skillet over high heat ; partially cook the chicken in the hot oil in batches until completely browned . Transfer the browned chicken breasts to a plate and set aside . Reduce the heat under the skillet to medium-high ; add the onion , garlic , and ginger to the oil remaining in the skillet and cook and stir until the onion turns translucent , about 8 minutes . Stir the curry powder , cumin , turmeric , coriander , cayenne , and 1 tablespoon of water into the onion mixture ; allow to heat together for about 1 minute while stirring . Mix the tomatoes , yogurt , 1 tablespoon chopped cilantro , and 1 teaspoon salt into the mixture . Return the chicken breast to the skillet along with any juices on the plate . Pour 1/2 cup water into the mixture ; bring to a boil , turning the chicken to coat with the sauce . Sprinkle the garam masala and 1 tablespoon cilantro over the chicken . Cover the skillet and simmer until the chicken breasts are no longer pink in the center and the juices run clear , about 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Sprinkle with lemon juice to serve . 
2 1/2 cups grated zucchini 1 1/3 cups finely chopped onions 1/3 cup chopped green bell pepper 1/3 cup chopped red bell pepper 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 3 eggs , lightly beaten 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander salt to taste 1/2 cup crumbled feta cheese 1/2 cup chickpea flour 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1/4 cup rice flour 3 tablespoons canola oil , or as needed  | Place zucchini in a colander . Cover with cheesecloth or paper towels and squeeze out as much moisture as possible . Transfer zucchini to a large bowl ; mix in onions , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , and jalapeno pepper . Add eggs , cumin , coriander , and salt ; mix well . Stir in feta cheese , chickpea flour , cilantro , and rice flour until batter is well blended and thick . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet over medium heat . Drop pancake-sized scoops of batter into the skillet ; cook until golden brown , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Transfer to a serving plate . Repeat with remaining oil and batter . 
1 cup basmati rice 2 cups water 1/4 cup roasted peanuts 1 tablespoon margarine 1 onion , sliced 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 3/4 cup grated carrots salt to taste cayenne pepper to taste chopped fresh cilantro  | Combine rice and water in a medium saucepan . Bring to a boil over high heat . Reduce heat to low , cover with lid , and allow to steam until tender , about 20 minutes . While rice is cooking , grind peanuts in a blender and set aside . Heat the margarine in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned golden brown about 10 minutes . Stir in ginger , carrots , and salt to taste . Reduce heat to low and cover to steam 5 minutes . Stir in cayenne pepper and peanuts . When rice is done , add it to skillet and stir gently to combine with other ingredients . Garnish with chopped cilantro . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 onions , minced 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons fresh ginger root , finely chopped 6 whole cloves 2 (2 inch) sticks cinnamon , crushed 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander salt 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans 1 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat oil in a large frying pan over medium heat , and fry onions until tender . Stir in garlic , ginger , cloves , cinnamon , cumin , coriander , salt , cayenne , and turmeric . Cook for 1 minute over medium heat , stirring constantly . Mix in garbanzo beans and their liquid . Continue to cook and stir until all ingredients are well blended and heated through . Remove from heat . Stir in cilantro just before serving , reserving 1 tablespoon for garnish . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 large skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into bite-sized pieces 1 onion , diced 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons curry powder 1 tablespoon curry paste 2 teaspoons tandoori masala 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 15 green cardamom pods 1 cup low-fat plain yogurt 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk salt to taste  | Melt the butter and vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the chicken , onion , and garlic . Cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 10 minutes . Stir in the curry powder , curry paste , tandoori masala , garam masala , and tomato paste until no lumps of tomato paste remain . Pour into a slow cooker , and stir in the cardamom pods , coconut milk , and yogurt . Season to taste with salt . Cook on High 4 to 6 hours , or on Low 6 to 8 hours until the chicken is tender and the sauce has reduced to your desired consistency . Remove and discard the cardamom pods before serving . 
1 large eggplant 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 medium onion , thinly sliced 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 tomato , diced 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1 fresh jalapeno chile pepper , finely chopped 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 bunch cilantro , finely chopped  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place eggplant on a medium baking sheet . Bake 20 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until tender . Remove from heat , cool , peel , and chop . Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Mix in cumin seeds and onion . Cook and stir until onion is tender . Mix ginger garlic paste , curry powder , and tomato into the saucepan , and cook about 1 minute . Stir in yogurt . Mix in eggplant and jalapeno pepper , and season with salt . Cover , and cook 10 minutes over high heat . Remove cover , reduce heat to low , and continue cooking about 5 minutes . Garnish with cilantro to serve . 
1 onion , chopped 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 pound potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 tomatoes , chopped  | Lightly brown onion in oil in a medium size skillet . Stir in salt , cayenne , turmeric and cumin . Add potatoes and cook 10 minutes stirring occasionally . Add tomatoes , cover pan and cook until potatoes are soft , about 10 minutes . 
2 (6 ounce) containers plain yogurt 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 2 tablespoons freshly grated ginger 3 cloves garlic , minced 4 teaspoons paprika 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons ground coriander 16 chicken thighs olive oil spray  | In a medium bowl , stir together yogurt , salt , pepper , cloves , and ginger . Mix in garlic , paprika , cumin , cinnamon , and coriander . Set aside . Rinse chicken under cold water , and pat dry with paper towels . Place chicken in a large resealable plastic bag . Pour yogurt mixture over chicken , press air out of bag , and seal . Turn the bag over several times to distribute marinade . Place bag in a bowl , and refrigerate 8 hours , or overnight , turning bag occasionally . Preheat an outdoor grill for direct medium heat . Remove chicken from bag , and discard marinade . With paper towels , wipe off excess marinade . Spray chicken pieces with olive oil spray . Place chicken on the grill , and cook about 2 minutes . Turn , and cook 2 minutes more . Then arrange the chicken to receive indirect heat , and cook approximately 35 to 40 minutes , to an internal temperature of 180 degrees F . 
2 pounds chicken , cut into pieces 1 teaspoon salt 1 lemon , juiced 1 1/4 cups plain yogurt 1/2 onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 2 teaspoons garam masala 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon yellow food coloring 1 teaspoon red food coloring 2 teaspoons finely chopped cilantro 1 lemon , cut into wedges  | Remove skin from chicken pieces , and cut slits into them lengthwise . Place in a shallow dish . Sprinkle both sides of chicken with salt and lemon juice . Set aside 20 minutes . In a medium bowl , combine yogurt , onion , garlic , ginger , garam masala , and cayenne pepper . Mix until smooth . Stir in yellow and red food coloring . Spread yogurt mixture over chicken . Cover , and refrigerate for 6 to 24 hours (the longer the better) . Preheat an outdoor grill for medium high heat , and lightly oil grate . Cook chicken on grill until no longer pink and juices run clear . Garnish with cilantro and lemon wedges . 
1 1/2 cups basmati rice 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (2 inch) piece cinnamon stick 2 pods green cardamom 2 whole cloves 1 tablespoon cumin seed 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 2 1/2 cups water 1 small onion , thinly sliced  | Place rice into a bowl with enough water to cover . Set aside to soak for 20 minutes . Heat the oil in a large pot or saucepan over medium heat . Add the cinnamon stick , cardamom pods , cloves , and cumin seed . Cook and stir for about a minute , then add the onion to the pot . Saute the onion until a rich golden brown , about 10 minutes . Drain the water from the rice , and stir into the pot . Cook and stir the rice for a few minutes , until lightly toasted . Add salt and water to the pot , and bring to a boil . Cover , and reduce heat to low . Simmer for about 15 minutes , or until all of the water has been absorbed . Let stand for 5 minutes , then fluff with a fork before serving . 
1/4 cup cashew halves 1/4 cup boiling water 3 cloves garlic , peeled 1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled and chopped 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 bay leaves , crumbled 1 large onion , minced 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon chili powder 3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - diced 1/4 cup tomato sauce 1 cup chicken broth 1/2 cup heavy cream 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1 teaspoon cornstarch , mixed with equal parts water  | Place cashews in a small bowl , and pour the boiling water over nuts . Set aside for 15 to 20 minutes . Place garlic and ginger in food processor and blend until smooth ; set aside . Heat oil in wok over medium heat . Cook the bay leaves in hot oil for 30 seconds . Stir in onion , and cook until soft , about 3 to 5 minutes . Mix in garlic/ginger paste , and season with coriander , garam masala , cumin , turmeric , and chili powder . Stir in chicken , and cook for about 5 minutes . Pour in tomato sauce and chicken broth . Cover , reduce heat , and simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Meanwhile , place the cashews , along with the water in which they were soaked , and the cream and yogurt into food processor . Process until smooth . Stir the cashew mixture into the chicken and onions . Simmer for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cornstarch mixture , and continue cooking for 1 to 2 minutes . 
1 large onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1 slice fresh ginger root 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1 (1 inch) piece cinnamon stick 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 bay leaves 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 6 skinless chicken thighs 1 (14.5 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes , crushed  | Place onion , garlic and ginger in a food processor and process into a paste . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat , add onion paste and saute , stirring continuously , for about 10 minutes . Stir in the cumin , turmeric , salt , pepper , cardamom , cinnamon , cloves , bay leaves and nutmeg . Saute , stirring , for 1 to 2 minutes . Place chicken pieces in skillet and stir them around with the spice mixture until they are well coated . Saute for another 4 minutes , then pour in the tomatoes with liquid and stir . Reduce heat to low and simmer for 1 to 2 hours , or until the oil has separated from the liquid . Stir occasionally . (Note : If you simmer uncovered , the sauce will thicken ; add water , or keep covered while simmering.) 
1 cup basmati rice 7 1/2 cups water , divided 1 cup red lentils (masoor dal) , rinsed 1/2 cup finely chopped red onion (optional) 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper (optional) 1/2 teaspoon cayenne powder (optional) 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 cup broccoli florets (optional) 1 cup diced tomatoes (optional) 1 cup frozen peas (optional) 1 tablespoon olive oil , or as needed 1 cup sliced mushrooms (optional) 1 tablespoon peeled , finely grated fresh ginger 2 cloves garlic , finely grated  | Rinse rice in several changes of water and transfer to a container . Cover with water and let soak at room temperature , 15 minutes to 1 hour . Drain . Combine 6 cups water with red lentils in a large pot over medium heat . Bring to a simmer , skimming any scum that collects on the surface . Stir in onion , cumin , coriander , salt , black pepper , cayenne , and turmeric . Reduce heat to low and simmer , partially covered , until lentils are tender , about 30 minutes . Stir broccoli , tomatoes , peas , and salt into the pot . Continue cooking , stirring frequently , until lentils are soft , about 30 minutes more . Combine drained rice with remaining 1 1/2 cup water in another pot ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to very low and simmer , covered with a tight-fitting lid , until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed , about 20 minutes . Heat oil in a small skillet over medium heat . Add mushrooms , ginger , and garlic ; cook and stir until fragrant , 3 to 5 minutes . Pour over lentils ; stir to distribute . Cook lentils until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . Serve lentils with rice . 
2 mangos - peeled , seeded and diced 2 cups plain yogurt 1/2 cup white sugar 1 cup ice  | In a blender , combine mangos , yogurt , sugar and ice . Blend until smooth . Pour into glasses and serve . 
6 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root 2 dried red chile peppers (optional) 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 3/4 cup sour cream 3 pounds fresh spinach , torn 1 large tomato , quartered 4 sprigs fresh cilantro leaves 8 ounces ricotta cheese coarse sea salt to taste  | In a large saucepan heat 3 tablespoons of olive oil and saute garlic , 1/2 tablespoon of ginger , red chilies (optional ingredient) and onion until brown . Mix in the cumin , coriander , turmeric and sour cream (add more or less to achieve desired creaminess) . Add the spinach , handfuls at a time until it is cooked down , about 15 minutes total . Remove from heat and allow to cool slightly . Pour spinach mixture into a blender or food processor and add the tomato , the remaining 1/2 tablespoon of ginger , and cilantro (add more or less according to taste) . Blend for 15 to 30 seconds , or until the spinach is finely chopped . Pour back into the saucepan and keep warm over low heat . In a medium frying pan heat 3 tablespoons of olive oil over medium heat , and fry cheese until browned ; drain and add to spinach . Cook for 10 minutes on low heat . Season with salt to taste . 
1 1/2 cups red lentils 3 1/2 cups water 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 pound spinach , rinsed and chopped 2 tablespoons butter 1 onion , chopped 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon mustard seed 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 cup coconut milk  | Rinse lentils and soak for 20 minutes . In a large saucepan , bring water to a boil and stir in salt , lentils , turmeric and chili powder . Cover and return to a boil , then reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes . Stir in the spinach and cook 5 minutes , or until lentils are soft . Add more water if necessary . In a small saucepan over medium heat , melt butter and saute onions with cumin and mustard seeds , stirring often . Cook until onions are transparent , and then combine with lentils . Stir in garam masala and coconut milk and cook until heated through . 
2 large potatoes , peeled 1 cup frozen peas , thawed 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 bay leaf , crushed 2 large onions , finely chopped 1 pound ground beef 4 cloves garlic , crushed 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 tablespoons chopped green chile peppers 1 quart oil for deep frying 1 (16 ounce) package phyllo dough  | Bring a medium saucepan of lightly salted water to a boil . Stir in potatoes and peas . Cook until potatoes are tender but still firm , about 15 minutes . Drain , mash together and set aside . In a large saucepan over medium high heat , heat the oil . Brown cumin seeds and bay leaf . Mix in onions and ground beef . Cook until beef is evenly brown and onions are soft , about 5 minutes . Mix in garlic , fresh ginger root . Season with black pepper , salt , cumin , coriander , turmeric , chili powder , cinnamon and cardamom . Stir in the mashed potato mixture . Remove from heat and chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour , or until cool . Heat oil in a large , heavy saucepan over high heat . Mix cilantro and green chile peppers into the potato and beef mixture . Place approximately 1 tablespoon of the mixture onto each phyllo sheet . Fold sheets into triangles , pressing edges together with moistened fingers . In small batches , fry until golden brown , about 3 minutes . Drain on paper towels and serve warm . 
1 tablespoon butter 1 onion , chopped 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 packet dry onion soup mix (such as Knorr® French Onion Soup Mix) 3 tablespoons curry powder , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 teaspoons ground cayenne pepper , or to taste 3 large skinless , boneless chicken breast halves -- trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces 1 cup green peas 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms  | Set the slow cooker to the High setting . Heat the butter in a skillet over medium heat , and cook and stir the onion until browned , 5 to 10 minutes . Set the onion aside . In a large bowl , stir together cream of mushroom soup , cream of chicken soup , coconut milk , dry soup mix , curry powder , salt , pepper , and cayenne pepper until the mixture is thoroughly combined . Place the chicken into the bottom of the slow cooker , and pour the mixture over the chicken . Stir in onion , peas and mushrooms . Cook on High setting for 1 1/2 hours , then reduce heat to Low and cook an additional 1 1/2 to 2 hours . 
1 cup red lentils 1 slice ginger , 1 inch piece , peeled 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste 4 teaspoons vegetable oil 4 teaspoons dried minced onion 1 teaspoon cumin seeds  | Rinse lentils thoroughly and place in a medium saucepan along with ginger , turmeric , salt and cayenne pepper . Cover with about 1 inch of water and bring to a boil . Skim off any foam that forms on top of the lentils . Reduce heat and simmer , stirring occasionally , until beans are tender and soupy . Meanwhile , in a microwave safe dish combine oil , dried onion and cumin seeds . Microwave on high for 45 seconds to 1 minute ; be sure to brown , but not burn , onions . Stir into lentil mixture . 
2 medium mangoes , peeled and sliced , divided 1 (10 ounce) can coconut milk 4 teaspoons vegetable oil 4 teaspoons spicy curry paste 14 ounces skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into cubes 4 medium shallots , sliced 1 large English cucumber , seeded and sliced  | Place half of the mango slices into the bowl of a blender with the coconut milk . Blend until smooth and reserve for later . Heat the oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Stir in the curry paste , and cook until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add the chicken and shallot ; cook until the chicken is done and the shallots have softened , about 5 minutes . Pour in the mango puree , and cook until heated through . To serve , stir in the remaining mango slices and cucumber . 
1/4 cup olive oil 4 cloves garlic , pressed 1 medium onions , minced 1 (14 ounce) package extra firm tofu , diced 1 (16 ounce) can coconut milk 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon red pepper paste 6 cups tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups frozen peas , thawed 1 1/2 cups chopped carrot  | Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , onion , and tofu ; cover , and cook , stirring occasionally for 5 to 10 minutes . Stir in coconut milk , cumin , curry powder , ginger , salt , and red pepper paste ; bring to a simmer . Add tomato sauce , peas , and carrots ; simmer , covered , about 30 minutes . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon ginger paste 2 medium potatoes , peeled and cubed 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon garam masala salt to taste 1 pound cauliflower 1 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat the oil in a medium skillet over medium heat . Stir in the cumin seeds , garlic , and ginger paste . Cook about 1 minute until garlic is lightly browned . Add the potatoes . Season with turmeric , paprika , cumin , garam masala , and salt . Cover and continue cooking 5 to 7 minutes stirring occasionally . Mix the cauliflower and cilantro into the saucepan . Reduce heat to low and cover . Stirring occasionally , continue cooking 10 minutes , or until potatoes and cauliflower are tender . 
8 bone-in chicken breast halves , skinless salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 onions , peeled and quartered 1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon crushed garlic 1 tablespoon hot (Madras) curry powder 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (10 ounce) can coconut milk 4 whole cloves 4 pods cardamom 1 cinnamon stick salt to taste  | Rinse chicken and pat dry ; season with salt and pepper to taste . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat , then saute chicken until browned . Remove chicken from skillet and set aside . Saute onions in skillet until translucent ; add ginger and garlic and saute until fragrant , then stir in curry powder . Return chicken to skillet and add tomato sauce , coconut milk , cloves , cardamom and cinnamon stick . Season with salt to taste and stir all together . Reduce heat to low and simmer until chicken is tender and cooked through (no longer pink inside) , about 20 to 25 minutes . 
1 cup dried black chickpeas (garbanzo beans) 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , divided 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 quart water 1 onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , chopped , or more to taste 1 (1 inch) piece chopped fresh ginger 3 tablespoons water 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/4 teaspoon cumin seeds 2 pinches asafoetida powder 4 potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 cups water 3 tablespoons tamarind paste , or more to taste  | Sort and clean chickpeas and wash them under cold water ; drain . Combine chickpeas , 1/2 teaspoon salt , and baking soda in a large bowl ; add 1 quart water . Soak chickpeas for 24 hours ; drain . Combine onion , garlic , and ginger in a blender ; add 3 tablespoons water . Blend mixture at high speed until a smooth paste forms . Heat vegetable oil in a 4-quart pot over medium-high heat . Add cumin seeds and asafoetida ; cook and stir until asafoetida expands and cumin seeds darken , about 1 minute . Stir onion paste into cumin mixture , taking great care to avoid splattering . Cook and stir mixture until well mixed and fragrant , about 5 minutes . Stir chickpeas , potatoes , 1 teaspoon salt , coriander , garam masala , turmeric , and cayenne pepper into onion-cumin mixture ; add 2 cups water . Bring liquid to a boil and cover pot ; reduce heat and gently simmer for 1 hour . Stir tamarind paste into chickpea mixture ; cook , stirring occasionally , for 10 minutes more . 
2 tablespoons peanut oil 1/2 sweet onion , minced 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground turmeric 1 teaspoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon red chili powder 1 (14.5 ounce) can chopped tomatoes 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 teaspoon salt 1 pound cooked and peeled shrimp 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook the onion in the hot oil until translucent , about 5 minutes . Remove the skillet from the heat and allow it to cool slightly , about 2 minutes . Add the garlic , ginger , cumin , turmeric , paprika , and ground chile (see Note) to the onion and stir over low heat . Pour the tomatoes and coconut milk into the skillet ; season with salt . Cook the mixture at a simmer , stirring occasionally , about 10 minutes . Stir the shrimp , fresh cilantro , and dried cilantro into the sauce mixture ; cook another 1 minute before serving . 
1 eggplant 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 medium onion , sliced 1 teaspoon chopped fresh ginger 1 large tomato - peeled , seeded and diced 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste ground black pepper to taste 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Preheat the oven's broiler . Rub oil on the outside of the egg plant , or coat with cooking spray . Place under the broiler , and cook until the flesh is soft and the skin is blistering off , about 30 minutes . Turn as needed for even cooking . Cut the eggplant in half lengthwise , and scoop the flesh out of the skin . Discard the skin ; chop up the flesh , and set aside . Heat the oil in a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat . Add the cumin seeds , and let them crackle for a few seconds and turn golden brown . Be careful not to burn them . Add the onion , ginger and garlic ; cook and stir until tender . I don't let the onions get very brown . Stir in the tomato , and season with turmeric , ground cumin , ground coriander , cayenne pepper , salt and black pepper . Cook and stir for a few minutes . Place the eggplant pieces in the skillet , and cook for 10 to 15 minutes so some of the moisture evaporates . Taste , and adjust seasonings if desired . Garnish with fresh cilantro , and serve . 
1 cup whole wheat flour 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 3/4 cup hot water or as needed  | In a large bowl , stir together the whole wheat flour , all-purpose flour and salt . Use a wooden spoon to stir in the olive oil and enough water to make a soft dough that is elastic but not sticky . Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface until it is smooth . Divide into 10 parts , or less if you want bigger breads . Roll each piece into a ball . Let rest for a few minutes . Heat a skillet over medium heat until hot , and grease lightly . On a lightly floured surface , use a floured rolling pin to roll out the balls of dough until very thin like a tortilla . When the pan starts smoking , put a chapati on it . Cook until the underside has brown spots , about 30 seconds , then flip and cook on the other side . Continue with remaining dough . 
1/4 cup olive oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can coconut milk 2 tablespoons ground coriander 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon ground turmeric 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cardamom 3 large Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 medium head cauliflower , chopped into bite size pieces 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans , drained 2 tablespoons garam masala  | Heat oil in a large pot on medium-high heat and add onion . Cook until softened , about 4 minutes , then stir in garlic and cumin . Continue to cook until onion begins to brown . Stir in tomatoes and coconut and the coriander , salt , turmeric , cayenne pepper , cinnamon , ginger , and cardamom . Stir until mixture begins to boil , then put in the potatoes , cauliflower , and garbanzo beans . Blend well . Reduce heat to low and cover . Simmer until the potatoes are tender , 45 minutes to an hour (this will depend on the size of the potato chunks) . Sprinkle in the garam masala , stir , and cook for an additional 5 minutes . 
2 cups coconut milk 2 cups milk 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup Basmati rice 1/4 cup raisins 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1/2 teaspoon rose water (optional) 1/4 cup sliced almonds , toasted 1/4 cup chopped pistachio nuts  | Bring the coconut milk , milk and sugar to a boil in a large saucepan . Add Basmati rice , and simmer over low heat until the mixture thickens and the rice is tender , about 20 minutes . Stir in the raisins , cardamom and rose water , and cook for a few more minutes . Ladle into serving bowls , and garnish with almonds and pistachios . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut into bite-sized chunks 1 medium yellow onion , chopped or sliced 1 cup peeled potatoes , cut in 1-inch chunks 1 cup halved baby carrots 1 (9 ounce) package frozen baby lima beans 1/4 (12 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 cup canned coconut milk 1 cup fat-free , reduced-sodium chicken broth 1 tablespoon cumin 1 tablespoon curry powder Salt and pepper to taste 1/4 teaspoon hot sauce (such as Tabasco) , or to taste Parsley or cilantro for garnish  | Put all ingredients in a large microwave-safe bowl and mix thoroughly . Cover tightly and microwave on high for 30-40 minutes . 
1 3/4 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon chili powder salt to taste 1 cup yogurt salt to taste 2 tablespoons garlic paste 1/2 tablespoon garam masala 2 tablespoons melted butter 1 tablespoon chili powder 2 tablespoons ginger paste 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon garam masala 1 tablespoon ginger paste 1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 tablespoon chopped green chile pepper 2 cups tomato puree 1 tablespoon chili powder salt to taste 1 cup water 1 tablespoon honey 1/2 teaspoon dried fenugreek leaves 1 cup heavy cream  | To Marinate : Place chicken in a nonporous glass dish or bowl with lemon juice , 1 tablespoon chili powder and salt . Toss to coat ; cover dish and refrigerate to marinate for 1 hour . Drain yogurt in a cloth for 15 to 20 minutes . Place in a medium bowl ; mix in salt , garlic paste , garam masala , butter , chili powder , ginger paste , lemon juice and oil . Pour yogurt mixture over chicken , replace cover and refrigerate to marinate for another 3 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Place chicken on skewers . Place skewers in a 9x13 inch baking dish and bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes , or until almost cooked through . To Make Sauce : Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garam masala . When masala begins to crackle , mix in ginger paste , chopped garlic and green chile peppers . Saute until tender , then stir in tomato puree , chili powder , salt and water . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to low and simmer , stirring in honey and fenugreek . Place chicken in sauce mixture . Continue cooking for another 5 minutes , or until chicken is no longer pink inside . Stir in fresh cream . 
3 tablespoons butter 1 medium onion , chopped 1 pound sliced fresh okra 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper salt to taste  | Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the onion , and cook until tender . Stir in the okra , and season with cumin , ginger , coriander , pepper and salt . Cook and stir for a few minutes , then reduce the heat to medium-low , and cover the pan . Cook for 20 minutes , stirring occasionally until okra is tender . 
1/4 cup plain yogurt 2 teaspoons garam masala 2 teaspoons paprika 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast - cut into 1-inch strips 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 large onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger 2 green chile peppers , minced 2 Roma tomatoes , diced 1/2 cup tomato paste 1/4 cup water 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/2 bunch cilantro for garnish  | Combine yogurt , 2 teaspoons garam masala , paprika , black pepper , 1/2 teaspoon salt , cayenne pepper , and 1/2 teaspoon coriander in a large bowl . Add chicken strips and toss to coat . Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Grease a baking sheet . Place chicken strips on the prepared baking sheet , leaving space between each piece , and bake in the preheated oven until browned and no longer pink inside , about 10 minutes . Remove and set aside . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir cumin seeds until lightly toasted and aromatic , about 3 minutes . Add onion ; cook and stir until onion begins to soften , 4 to 5 minutes . Stir in garlic , ginger , and green chiles and continue to cook until onion is browned , 15 to 20 minutes . Cook and stir tomatoes , tomato paste , and water into onion mixture until tomatoes begin to break down and incorporate into the onion mixture , about 10 minutes . Cook and stir 1 teaspoon garam masala , 1/2 teaspoon coriander , and turmeric into the tomato mixture . Mix in the cooked chicken , add cream , and stir to coat . Cover and let simmer for 10 minutes . Season with 1/2 teaspoon salt and garnish with cilantro . 
For the marinade : 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons canola oil 4 white fish fillets 1 onion , coarsely chopped 4 cloves garlic , roughly chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root , peeled and chopped 5 cashew halves 1 tablespoon canola oil 2 teaspoons cayenne pepper , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 cup chopped tomato 1/4 cup vegetable broth 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Mix the mustard , pepper , 1/2 teaspoon salt , and 2 tablespoons of canola oil in a shallow bowl . Add the fish fillets , turning to coat . Marinate the fish in the refrigerator for 30 minutes . Combine the onion , garlic , ginger , and cashews in a blender or food processor and pulse until the mixture forms a paste . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat 1 tablespoon of canola oil in a skillet over medium-low heat . Stir in the prepared paste ; cook and stir for a minute or two . Add the cayenne pepper , turmeric , cumin , coriander , 1 teaspoon salt , and sugar . Cook and stir for an additional five minutes . Stir in the chopped tomato and vegetable broth . Arrange the fish fillets in a baking dish , discarding any extra marinade . Top the fish with the sauce , cover the baking dish , and bake in the preheated oven until the fish flakes easily with a fork , about 30 minutes . Garnish with chopped cilantro . 
2 pounds white carp , cut into large chunks 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon red chile powder 1 tablespoon ground turmeric 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/4 cup tamarind pulp 1 cup warm water 1/4 cup oil 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 large onion , minced 1 1/2 tablespoons garlic paste 2 tablespoons red chile powder 2 tablespoons ground coriander 1 pinch salt to taste 1 tablespoon chopped fresh coriander (cilantro) , or to taste  | Place fish in a bowl ; add 1 tablespoon vegetable oil , 1 tablespoon chile powder , turmeric , and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and allow to marinate for about 10 minutes . Place tamarind pulp in a bowl and pour warm water over it . Squeeze tamarind to extract juice . Heat 1/4 cup oil in a skillet over medium heat ; add cumin seeds and stir . Add onion to cumin ; cook and stir until onion is translucent , 5 to 10 minutes . Add garlic paste and cook for 3 minutes . Add carp , cover the skillet , and cook for 5 minutes . Mix tamarind juice into fish mixture ; bring to a boil . Turn carp pieces ; add 2 tablespoons red chile powder , coriander , and salt . Cook over low heat until sauce thickens and oil separates , about 10 minutes . Garnish with coriander leaves . 
1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons ground coriander 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom 1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg  | Mix cumin , coriander , cardamom , pepper , cinnamon , cloves , and nutmeg in a bowl . Place mix in an airtight container , and store in a cool , dry place . 
1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken thighs 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 teaspoons kosher salt 2 teaspoons garam masala 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon smoked paprika 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom 2 tablespoons clarified butter (ghee) , or more as needed 1 onion , chopped 1/4 cup tomato paste 4 cloves garlic , finely grated 1 tablespoon finely grated ginger , or more to taste 1 cup crushed tomatoes 1 (13 ounce) can coconut milk 1/2 cup chicken broth , or as needed 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Place chicken in a bowl and drizzle vegetable oil over chicken ; toss to coat . Whisk kosher salt , garam masala , ground cumin , ground coriander , smoked paprika , ground turmeric , black pepper , cayenne pepper , and cardamom together in a small bowl . Season chicken with spice mixture and turn to coat evenly . Melt clarified butter in a large , heavy skillet over high heat . Cook chicken thighs in hot butter until browned on all sides , 5 to 10 minutes . Transfer chicken to a plate . When cool enough to handle , cut chicken into bite-size pieces . Reduce heat under the skillet to medium-high . Stir onion into skillet ; saute until onion softens and turns translucent , 5 to 6 minutes . Add tomato paste and stir . Saute until paste caramelizes , about 5 minutes . Stir garlic and ginger into tomato-onion mixture and cook until fragrant , about 1 minute . Pour the crushed tomatoes into the skillet and bring to a boil while scraping the browned bits of food off of the bottom of the skillet with a wooden spoon . Pour in coconut milk and chicken broth ; bring to a simmer , reduce heat to medium low , and cook , stirring occasionally , until flavors blend and sauce is slightly reduced , about 15 minutes . Stir chicken , any accumulated juices from the chicken , cilantro , and red pepper flakes into tomato mixture ; bring to a simmer , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook until chicken is cooked through and tender , 10 to 15 minutes . Season with salt and black pepper . 
2/3 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 teaspoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup ghee 2 tablespoons plain yogurt 2 teaspoons kalonji (onion seed)  | Whisk the warm water with the yeast and sugar until the yeast is dissolved . Cover and let stand in a warm place for 10 minutes . Sift flour and salt three times into a large bowl add the yeast mixture , half of the ghee and all the yogurt . Mix into a soft dough then knead on a floured surface for about 5 minutes or until dough is smooth and elastic . Place the dough in a large greased bowl , cover and let stand in a warm place for 1 1/2 hours or until the dough is doubled in size . Punch down dough then knead for 5 minutes . Divide dough into 6 pieces . Roll each piece out into 8 inch round naans . Cover an oven tray with foil and grease the foil . Brush the naan with a little of the remaining ghee and sprinkle with some of the kalonji . Cook naan one at a time under the broiler for about 2 minutes on each side or until puffed and just browned . 
1/8 teaspoon powdered saffron 2 cups boiling water , divided 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup uncooked long-grain white rice , not rinsed 1 teaspoon salt  | Steep the saffron in 1/2 cup boiling water . In a skillet that can be tightly covered , melt the butter over medium-high heat . Stir in the rice and salt . Cook , stirring constantly , until the rice begins to absorb the butter and becomes opaque , but do not brown the rice . Quickly pour in the remaining 1 1/2 cups boiling water along with the saffron water . Cover immediately , reduce heat to low , and cook 20 minutes , or until all of the liquid is absorbed . For best results , do not remove the lid while the rice is cooking . 
4 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 small potatoes , peeled and halved 2 large onions , finely chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 2 medium tomatoes , peeled and chopped 2 tablespoons plain yogurt 2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint leaves 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom 1 (2 inch) piece cinnamon stick 3 pounds boneless , skinless chicken pieces cut into chunks 2 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 large onion , diced 1 pinch powdered saffron 5 pods cardamom 3 whole cloves 1 (1 inch) piece cinnamon stick 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 pound basmati rice 4 cups chicken stock 1 1/2 teaspoons salt  | In a large skillet , in 2 tablespoons vegetable oil (or ghee) fry potatoes until brown , drain and reserve the potatoes . Add remaining 2 tablespoons oil to the skillet and fry onion , garlic and ginger until onion is soft and golden . Add chili , pepper , turmeric , cumin , salt and the tomatoes . Fry , stirring constantly for 5 minutes . Add yogurt , mint , cardamom and cinnamon stick . Cover and cook over low heat , stirring occasionally until the tomatoes are cooked to a pulp . It may be necessary to add a little hot water if the mixture becomes too dry and starts to stick to the pan . When the mixture is thick and smooth , add the chicken pieces and stir well to coat them with the spice mixture . Cover and cook over very low heat until the chicken is tender , approximately 35 to 45 minutes . There should only be a little very thick gravy left when chicken is finished cooking . If necessary cook uncovered for a few minutes to reduce the gravy . Wash rice well and drain in colander for at least 30 minutes . In a large skillet , heat vegetable oil (or ghee) and fry the onions until they are golden . Add saffron , cardamom , cloves , cinnamon stick , ginger and rice . Stir continuously until the rice is coated with the spices . In a medium-size pot , heat the chicken stock and salt . When the mixture is hot pour it over the rice and stir well . Add the chicken mixture and the potatoes ; gently mix them into the rice . Bring to boil . Cover the saucepan tightly , turn heat to very low and steam for 20 minutes . Do not lift lid or stir while cooking . Spoon biryani onto a warm serving dish . 
1 cup red lentils 2 tablespoons ginger root , minced 1 teaspoon mustard seed 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 4 tomatoes , chopped 3 onions , chopped 3 jalapeno peppers , seeded and minced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon ground coriander seed 6 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 cup water salt to taste  | Cook the lentils by boiling or pressure cooking until lentils are soft . (Pressure cooking is faster.) In a skillet heat the oil and add mustard seeds . When mustard seeds begin to flutter , add onions , ginger , jalapeno peppers , and garlic . Saute until the onions and garlic are golden brown . Add coriander and cumin . Add chopped tomatoes . Saute the mixture well until tomatoes are well cooked . Add water . Boil 6 minutes . Add cooked lentils , stirring well . Add salt to taste , stirring well . Add finely chopped cilantro and remove from heat . Serve hot . 
1 quart chicken broth 1 onion , finely chopped 1 head cauliflower , finely chopped 1/2 head broccoli , finely chopped 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 tablespoon chicken bouillon granules salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 cup milk 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | In a stockpot , combine chicken broth , onion , cauliflower , and broccoli . Bring to a boil and reduce heat to low . Continue to simmer until vegetables are tender . Season with curry powder , chicken bouillon , salt , and pepper . In a bowl , combine flour and 1/2 cup of the milk . Whisk briskly until there are no lumps . Add mixture to soup , stirring continuously as soup thickens . Stir in Cheddar cheese until completely melted . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1/3 cup mixed nuts (cashews , pistachios , almonds) 1 medium onion , grated 1/2 teaspoon garlic paste 1/2 teaspoon ginger paste 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 teaspoons ground coriander 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 cup water 1/4 cup raisins 1/2 cup chopped carrots 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1/2 cup chopped fresh green beans 1/2 cup green peas 1 cup chopped potatoes 4 ounces paneer , cubed 1/4 cup milk 1/4 cup heavy cream salt to taste  | Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Place mixed nuts in the skillet , cook and stir until golden brown , and set aside . Stir onion into the skillet , and cook until tender . Mix in garlic paste and ginger paste , and cook 1 minute . Stir in tomato sauce , cayenne pepper , turmeric , coriander , and garam masala . Pour in water , and mix in raisins , carrots , green bell pepper , beans , peas , and potatoes . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , and simmer 20 minutes , until potatoes are tender . Heat remaining oil in a separate skillet over medium-high heat , and cook the paneer on both sides , until golden brown . Drain on paper towels . Place in a bowl with enough hot water to cover for about 2 minutes to soften , then stir into the skillet with the vegetables . Stir milk and cream into the skillet with the vegetables and paneer . Bring to a boil , and continue cooking 2 to 3 minutes . Season with salt to taste . 
1 cup water 1 (8 ounce) can stewed tomatoes 3/4 cup quick-cooking brown rice 1/2 cup raisins 1 tablespoon lemon juice 3 teaspoons curry powder 1 cube chicken bouillon 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 bay leaf (optional) 3/4 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch pieces  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a skillet , stir together water , stewed tomatoes , brown rice , raisins , lemon juice , curry powder , bouillon , ground cinnamon , salt , garlic , and bay leaf . Bring to a boil ; then stir in chicken . Transfer mixture to a casserole dish . Cover , and bake in the preheated oven 45 minutes , stirring occasionally , until rice is tender and chicken juices run clear . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 medium onions , finely chopped 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 bay leaf 4 large potatoes , peeled and chopped 1 cup frozen peas 1/2 cup tomato puree 1 1/2 teaspoons garam masala 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro  | Heat the oil in a wok over medium heat . Stir in the onions , ginger garlic paste , and bay leaf . Cook until the onions are tender . Mix in the potatoes and peas . Cover and cook until the potatoes are tender , about 15 minutes . Remove the bay leaf . Stir the tomato puree , garam masala , paprika , sugar , and salt into the vegetable mixture . Continue cooking about 10 minutes . Mix in the cilantro and continue cooking about 2 minutes . 
1 head cauliflower , cut into florets 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter , cut into small pieces 1 large yellow onion , diced 1 teaspoon chopped garlic 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 quart chicken stock 1 cup heavy whipping cream salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Toss cauliflower florets with vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon salt in a bowl ; spread onto a baking sheet . Roast cauliflower in preheated oven until browned , about 25 minutes . Melt butter in a saucepan over medium high heat . Saute onions in hot butter until soft , about 5 minutes . Stir garlic into the onion and continue to cook until fragrant , about 2 minutes more ; season with curry powder , cayenne pepper , and ground turmeric . Cook the seasoned onion mixture , stirring continually , for 5 minutes more . Stir roasted cauliflower with the onion mixture . Pour stock over the cauliflower mixture . Place a cover on the saucepan and bring the stock to a boil . Immediately remove the cover , reduce heat to low , and cook at a simmer until the liquid reduces slightly , about 10 minutes . Puree mixture in the saucepan with an immersion blender until mostly smooth . Stir cream into the soup ; season with salt and pepper . Ladle soup into bowls and garnish with parsley . 
2 hot house cucumber - peeled , seeded and thinly sliced 2 cups Greek yogurt 3 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint 1/2 teaspoon white sugar 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt  | Stir together the cucumber , yogurt , lemon juice , mint , sugar , and salt in a bowl . Cover and refrigerate at least 3 hours , preferably overnight . 
1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon paprika 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 tablespoons water 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | Preheat grill for high heat . In a medium bowl , mix curry powder , red pepper flakes , salt , ginger , paprika , cinnamon , and turmeric with water to form a smooth paste . Rub paste into chicken breasts , and place them on a plate . Cover , and allow to marinate for 20 minutes . Brush grate with oil . Place chicken on the grill , and cook 6 to 8 minutes on each side , until juices run clear when pierced with a fork . 
1 1/2 pounds ground lamb 1 onion , finely chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons garam masala 1 teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons tomato paste 3/4 cup beef broth  | In a large heavy skillet over medium heat , cook ground lamb until evenly brown . While cooking , break apart with a wooden spoon until crumbled . Transfer cooked lamb to a bowl , and drain off all but 1 tablespoon fat . Saute onion until soft and translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in garlic , and saute 1 minute . Stir in garam masala and salt , and cook 1 minute . Return the browned lamb to the pan , and stir in tomato paste and beef broth . Reduce heat , and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes or until meat is fully cooked through , and liquid has evaporated . 
1 1/4 cups evaporated milk 1 1/4 cups sweetened condensed milk 1 (16 ounce) container frozen whipped topping , thawed 4 slices white bread , torn into pieces 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom  | Combine evaporated milk , condensed milk and whipped topping in a blender and blend in pieces of bread until smooth . Pour mixture into a 9x13 inch baking dish or two plastic ice cube trays , sprinkle with cardamom and freeze for 8 hours or overnight . 
2 pounds lean ground lamb 2 onions , finely chopped 1/2 cup fresh mint leaves , finely chopped 1/2 cup cilantro , finely chopped 1 tablespoon ginger paste 1 tablespoon green chile paste 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons ground coriander 2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 teaspoons salt 1/4 cup vegetable oil skewers  | In a large bowl , mix ground lamb , onions , mint , cilantro , ginger paste , and chile paste . Season with cumin , coriander , paprika , cayenne , and salt . Cover , and refrigerate for 2 hours . Mold handfuls of the lamb mixture , about 1 cup , to form sausages around skewers . Make sure the meat is spread to an even thickness . Refrigerate until you are ready to grill . Preheat grill for high heat . Brush grate liberally with oil , and arrange kabobs on grill . Cook for 10 minutes , or until well done , turning as needed to brown evenly . 
3 tablespoons ghee 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon mustard seed 1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 6 medium potatoes , peeled and diced 2 cups water 1 cup yogurt 2/3 cup frozen green peas  | Heat the ghee in a skillet over medium heat , and mix in the cumin , turmeric , coriander , salt , mustard seed , and cayenne pepper . Place potatoes in the skillet , and stir to evenly coat with the ghee . Cook 10 minutes , stirring often . Pour water into the skillet . Reduce heat to low , and simmer 30 minutes , until potatoes are tender . Mix the yogurt and peas into the saucepan . Continue cooking until heated through . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 cups basmati rice 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 1/4 (14 ounce) cans chicken stock 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 bay leaf 1/2 cup raisins 3/4 cup cashew halves  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Stir in rice , and cook for 2 minutes . Pour in the coconut milk , chicken stock , cumin , coriander , red pepper flakes , salt , turmeric , bay leaf , raisins , and cashew halves . Bring to a boil , then cover , and reduce heat to low . Cook until rice is tender , about 20 minutes . 
1/2 pound ground turkey 2 (10.75 ounce) cans tomato soup 1 1/4 cups water 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans) , drained and rinsed 1 (15 ounce) can red kidney beans , drained and rinsed 1/2 cup chopped carrot 1/4 cup mango chutney 3 tablespoons curry powder 1 teaspoon onion powder salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/2 cup coconut milk , divided  | Break the ground turkey into small pieces into a large skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir the turkey , continuing to break it into smaller pieces , until completely browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Drain as much grease as possible from the turkey . Combine tomato soup , water , and minced garlic in a large pot ; bring to a boil . Add the turkey to the pot and return the mixture to a boil and reduce heat to medium-low . Stir chickpeas , red kidney beans , carrot , chutney , curry powder , onion powder , salt , and black pepper through the turkey mixture ; bring to a simmer , place a cover on the pot , and cook until the chickpeas are tender , about 15 minutes . Stir 1/4 cup coconut milk through the chili , return cover to the pot , and simmer another 15 minutes . Pour the remaining 1/4 cup coconut milk into the chili , stir , and simmer 30 minutes more . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 large onion , chopped 10 fresh curry leaves (optional) 1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste 1 teaspoon ground coriander 2/3 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 tomato , finely chopped 1 teaspoon ground red chile pepper 2 pounds medium shrimp - peeled and deveined 1/4 cup water 1 teaspoon garam masala chopped fresh cilantro to taste  | Heat the oil in a wok or large saucepan over nearly high heat . Add the onions ; cook and stir until browned . Mix in the curry leaves , then season with the ginger garlic paste , coriander and salt . Cook and stir for 1 minute . Season with salt and turmeric , then mix in the tomato , chile powder , shrimp and water . Reduce the heat to medium-high and cook for 7 to 8 minutes , until shrimp are opaque . Taste and adjust salt and chile powder if necessary . Season with garam masala , stir and remove from the heat . Garnish with fresh cilantro and serve with flat bread or rice . 
2 red bell peppers , chopped 1 sweet onion , peeled and chopped 1 cup white wine vinegar 1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes  | In a medium saucepan over medium heat , mix together red bell peppers , onion , white wine vinegar , sugar and crushed red pepper flakes . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to simmer . Stirring occasionally , cook 30 minutes , or until thickened . Refrigerate 4 hours or overnight before serving . 
2 1/4 pounds cubed lamb meat 4 teaspoons olive oil , divided 1 brown onion , chopped 1 red potato , peeled and cubed 1/2 cup curry powder 1/2 cup water 1/3 cup coconut milk 1/3 cup drained canned chickpeas (garbanzo beans)  | Place lamb in a bowl and drizzle 2 teaspoons olive oil over lamb ; stir until coated . Heat remaining 2 teaspoons olive oil in a saucepan over low heat ; cook and stir onion until softened , 10 to 15 minutes . Remove saucepan from heat and add potato to onion . Heat a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir lamb , working in small batches , until browned , about 5 minutes per batch . Transfer browned lamb to onion mixture . Stir curry into lamb-onion mixture and cook over medium heat for 1 minute . Add water to lamb-onion mixture and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover saucepan , and simmer until lamb is cooked through and potatoes are tender , about 45 minutes . Mix coconut milk and chickpeas into lamb-onion mixture and simmer until heated through , about 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 3 tablespoons butter 2 large onions , chopped 6 tablespoons plain yogurt 2 tablespoons mango chutney 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons turmeric powder 1 teaspoon red chile powder 2 teaspoons garam masala 2 teaspoons salt 4 boneless skinless chicken breast halves , chopped 1/3 cup sliced almonds  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 2-quart baking dish . Heat oil and butter in a skillet over medium heat . Cook onions in oil until soft . Place onion , yogurt , mango chutney , garlic , turmeric , chili powder , garam masala , and into the bowl of a food processor . Process into a smooth sauce ; it should be about the consistency of thick cream . Add a bit of water or yogurt to thin it if needed . Spread chicken into prepared baking dish , and pour the onion sauce over the chicken . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , or until the chicken is cooked through . Sprinkle sliced almonds over the top , and serve . 
2 cups long grain rice , rinsed and drained 1/4 cup diced onion 1 1/2 cups coconut milk 3/4 cup water 2 slices fresh ginger root 2 teaspoons curry powder 1/2 teaspoon salt  | In a medium saucepan , combine rice , onion , coconut milk , water , ginger , curry powder , and salt . Cover , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat , and simmer for 20 to 30 minutes , or until done . 
1 pound chicken tenders , cut into bite-size pieces 2 teaspoons garam masala 1 teaspoon garlic powder salt and black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 yellow onion , finely diced 1 1/2 cups chicken stock , or as needed 1 cup apricot preserves 1/4 cup white vinegar 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce (such as Tabasco®) 1 teaspoon lime zest 1 tablespoon butter  | Season the chicken with garam masala , garlic powder , salt , and pepper ; set aside . Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook the onions in the hot oil until tender , about 5 minutes . Add the chicken ; cook and stir until the chicken pieces are no longer pink on the outside , about 5 minutes . Remove the mixture from the pan and set aside . Pour 1 cup of chicken stock into the pan and bring to a simmer . Scrape up the brown bits from the bottom of the pan ; stir in the apricot preserves and vinegar . Thin with the remaining chicken stock as needed to create a smooth sauce . Season to taste with the hot sauce . Place chicken back in pan ; simmer until chicken is cooked through , about 10 minutes . Stir in lime zest and butter before serving . 
1 tablespoon butter 1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cut into bite-size pieces 3 tablespoons curry paste 1/2 cup mango chutney 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes , drained  | Melt the butter in a skillet over medium-high heat ; cook the onion and garlic in the butter until the onions are translucent , 2 to 3 minutes ; add the chicken and cook about 30 seconds while stirring . Stir in the curry paste until the chicken is evenly coated . Pour the chutney and tomatoes into the pan ; continue to cook until the chicken breasts is no longer pink in the center and the juices run clear , about 10 minutes . 
1 cup chickpea flour 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon garam masala 2 cloves garlic , crushed 3/4 cup water 1 quart oil for deep frying 1/2 head cauliflower florets 2 onions , sliced into rings  | Sift the chickpea flour into a medium bowl . Mix in the coriander , salt , turmeric , chili powder , garam masala and garlic . Make a well in the center of the flower . Gradually pour the water into the well and mix to form a thick , smooth batter . Over medium high heat in a large , heavy saucepan , heat the oil to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Coat the cauliflower and onions in the batter and fry them in small batches until golden brown , about 4 to 5 minutes . Drain on paper towels before serving . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 onion , diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon ground cumin 2 tablespoons curry powder 1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans (chickpeas) , undrained 1/2 red bell pepper , diced 1/2 turnip , peeled and diced 1 cup corn kernels 1/2 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 1 pinch salt 1 pinch cracked black pepper  | Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in the onion , garlic , cumin , and curry powder ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the garbanzo beans , red bell pepper , turnip , corn , and tomato sauce . Season with red pepper flakes , salt , and black pepper . Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the vegetables are tender and the curry has thickened , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 medium onion , chopped 1 teaspoon garlic paste 1 teaspoon ginger paste 2 teaspoons cumin 2 teaspoons coriander 1 teaspoon cardamom 1/2 teaspoon turmeric 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 fresh jalapeno peppers , seeded and diced 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 pound cod fillets , cut into chunks  | Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat . Place onion in the skillet . Reduce heat to low , and cook , stirring often , 15 minutes , or until soft and brown . Mix the garlic paste and ginger paste into the skillet . Cook 1 minute . Mix in cumin , coriander , cardamom , turmeric , and salt . Stir in the jalapeno , cilantro , lemon juice , and tomatoes with juice , scraping up any brown bits from the bottom of the skillet . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes . If you like , the sauce may be set aside for a few hours at this point to allow the flavors to blend . Return the sauce to a boil , and place cod in the skillet . Reduce heat to low , and cook 15 minutes , or until fish flakes easily with a fork . 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 cup lowfat cream cheese 2 eggs 3/4 cup mashed bananas 1/4 cup brewed chai tea  | In a medium bowl mix together flour , baking powder , and salt . In a separate bowl mix sugar , cream cheese , and eggs until light and fluffy . Mix mashed bananas and Chai into cream cheese mixture . Add flour mixture and mix until smooth . Pour mixture into a greased 9x5 inch loaf pan . Bake in a preheated 350 degree F(175 degrees C) oven for 60 minutes . Cool on rack . Remove from pan after 10 minutes . 
1/4 cup butter 1 onion , diced 1 1/2 cups pearl barley 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/4 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper 3 1/2 cups chicken broth 1/4 cup slivered almonds 1/4 cup raisins (optional)  | Melt butter in a large skillet placed over medium-high heat . Add the onion and barley ; cook , stirring frequently , until the onion begins to soften , about 5 minutes . Stir in the allspice , turmeric , curry powder , salt , and black pepper . Pour in the chicken broth , and bring to a simmer . Cover skillet with lid , and reduce heat to low ; simmer until the barley is tender , about 30 to 40 minutes . Fluff the pilaf with a fork , and gently stir in the slivered almonds and raisins . 
1 tablespoon tomato paste 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/8 teaspoon ground red pepper 3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh cilantro 1 fresh jalapeno pepper , chopped 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 1 cup coconut milk 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon black mustard seed 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 1/4 pounds medium shrimp - peeled and deveined 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon cold water  | In a medium bowl , stir together tomato paste , salt , sugar , garam masala , ground cumin seed , ground red pepper , cilantro , jalapeno pepper , lemon juice , and coconut milk . Set coconut sauce aside . Heat oil in a wok or frying pan over medium-high heat . When oil is hot , add the mustard seeds , and cook until they begin to pop . Immediately stir in garlic , and cook until garlic begins to brown . Add shrimp , and cook until shrimp is opaque ; this should take only a minute or two . Pour the coconut sauce over the shrimp ; cook until the sauce begins to simmer . In a small bowl , mix together cornstarch and water ; stir into the sauce , and continue cooking until thick . 
4 cups low-sodium vegetable broth , divided 1 small yellow onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , finely chopped 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/8 teaspoon garam masala 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 cup red lentils 1 (14.5 ounce) can no-salt-added diced tomatoes , undrained 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice (optional) 1 tablespoon crumbled feta cheese (optional)  | Bring 1/2 cup broth to a boil in a pot ; reduce heat and simmer . Add onion and garlic and simmer until onion is translucent and tender , about 5 minutes . Stir coriander , cinnamon , turmeric , garam masala , and cayenne pepper into onion mixture ; simmer for 1 minute . Stir lentils into spiced onion mixture ; cook , stirring constantly , for 30 seconds . Add remaining 3 1/2 cups broth and tomatoes ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer until lentils are tender , 10 to 12 minutes . Stir lemon juice into soup and garnish with feta cheese . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into strips 1/4 cup olive oil 2 large onions , diced 1/3 cup curry powder , or to taste  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and saute until soft and golden brown . Slowly stir in curry powder . Once ingredients are blended together , add chicken breasts . Cover skillet and simmer over medium low heat for about 45 minutes or until chicken is cooked through and no longer pink inside . Remove cover from skillet and cook for an additional 15 minutes , until sauce reduces . (Note : Make sure that you stir and that dish does not burn , as curry powder burns very easily!) 
2 pounds new potatoes , cut into 1/4 inch thick pieces 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons cumin seed 2 teaspoons ground turmeric 2 teaspoons curry powder 2 teaspoons coarse sea salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Place whole potatoes into a saucepan with water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until just tender . Drain , and cut potatoes into quarters . Set aside to keep warm . Heat oil in a large saute pan over medium-high heat . Saute the cumin , turmeric , and curry powder for 1 minute . Add potatoes , and saute until toasted . Toss potatoes with sea salt , pepper and fresh cilantro , and serve hot . 
1 (16 ounce) package firm tofu 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 onion , chopped 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 cup frozen peas , thawed 2 teaspoons curry powder 1 cup chopped fresh tomatoes salt to taste 1 fresh jalapeno pepper , chopped  | Place tofu in a colander , and cover with a plate . Weight down with a skillet or some other heavy object . Let drain for 30 minutes . Place in the freezer for 24 hours . Remove tofu from freezer , and defrost . Mince , and set aside . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; add cumin seeds , and cook until the seeds begin to sputter . Cook onion , ginger , garlic in oil until browned . Stir in tofu , peas , and curry powder ; cook , stirring frequently , for 5 minutes . Then stir in tomatoes and salt . Cover , and cook for 15 minutes . Stir in chopped pepper , and cook for 2 to 3 minutes . 
2 1/2 cups dried yellow split peas 2 1/2 cups water 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon diced jalapeno chile pepper 1/2 cup diced tomatoes 3 teaspoons lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seed 1/2 dried red chile pepper 1 pinch Asafoetida 2 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Rinse split peas ; add to saucepan with 2 1/2 cups water . Allow split peas to soak for 30 minutes . Heat split peas and water , with salt , until boiling . Reduce heat to medium-low and cook until tender and thickened , 15 to 20 minutes . Add more water , if necessary , to prevent drying out . Stir in ginger , jalapeno pepper , tomato , lemon juice , and turmeric . Heat oil in a small saucepan and add cumin seed and red chile pepper . When pepper is heated , add Asafoetida powder and garlic . Stir mixture into split peas and add cilantro ; mix well . 
2 potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 carrot , chopped 10 French-style green beans , chopped 1 quart cold water 1/2 cup frozen green peas , thawed 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 teaspoon mustard seed 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 onion , finely chopped 2 tomatoes - blanched , peeled and chopped 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 sprig cilantro leaves , for garnish  | Place potatoes , carrots and green beans in the cold water . Allow to soak while you prepare the rest of the vegetables ; drain . In a microwave safe dish place the potatoes , carrots , green beans , peas , salt and turmeric . Cook for 8 minutes . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook mustard seeds and cumin ; when seeds start to sputter and pop , add the onion and saute until transparent . Stir in the tomatoes , garam masala , ginger , garlic and chili powder ; saute 3 minutes . Add the cooked vegetables to the tomato mixture and saute 1 minute . Garnish with cilantro leaves . 
1 large head cauliflower 4 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 small onion , minced 2 tomatoes , pureed 1 teaspoon garlic powder 3 teaspoons garam masala (optional) salt to taste 1/2 head lettuce  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Cut off most of the cauliflower's stem and place the whole head in a baking dish . Heat two tablespoons of oil and turmeric together in a small frying pan . Brush the cauliflower head with the oil and turmeric mixture . Bake the cauliflower for 30 minutes . While the cauliflower is cooking heat two tablespoons of oil in a frying pan , mix in the minced onions and saute until the are a medium brown color . Add the pureed tomatoes , garlic powder , garam masala and salt . Let this mixture simmer for 10 minutes . Arrange lettuce leaves on a serving plate . Place the cauliflower on top of the lettuce . Pour the tomato curry over the cauliflower . Serve hot . 
1 tablespoon ghee (clarified butter) , or vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger 2 green chile peppers , chopped 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 teaspoons ground coriander seed 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 4 pods cardamom , bruised 1 tablespoon chopped fresh curry 1 carrot , chopped 1 apple - peeled , cored , and chopped 1 large potato , peeled and diced 1 cup Masoor dhal (red lentils) , rinsed , drained 8 cups chicken broth 1 tablespoon tamarind concentrate 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 cups coconut milk 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Heat ghee or vegetable oil in large pan (use low heat) ; cook onion , garlic , ginger , chilies , spices and curry leaves , stirring , until onion is browned lightly and mixture is fragrant . Do not over brown the onion or else it will give the soup a burnt taste . Add carrot , apple , potato , dhal , and chicken stock to pan ; simmer , covered , for about 15 minutes or until vegetables are just tender . Discard cardamom pods and curry leaves . Blend or process soup mixture , in batches , until pureed ; return to pan . Add tamarind , lemon juice , coconut milk and fresh coriander leaves ; stir until heated through . 
5 russet potatoes , peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes 1/4 cup curry powder 2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 large green bell pepper , cut into strips 1 large red bell pepper , cut into strips 1 (1 ounce) package dry onion soup mix (such as Lipton®) 1 (14 ounce) can unsweetened coconut cream water , as needed 1 1/2 cups matchstick-cut carrots 1 cup green peas (optional) 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Place the potatoes into the bottom of a slow cooker . Mix the curry powder , flour , chili powder , red pepper flakes , and cayenne pepper together in a small bowl ; sprinkle over the potatoes . Stir the potatoes to coat evenly . Add the red bell pepper , green bell pepper , onion soup mix , and coconut cream ; stir to combine . Cover the slow cooker and cook on Low until the mixture is bubbling , adding water as needed to keep moist , 3 to 4 hours . Add the carrots to the mixture and cook another 30 minutes . Stir the peas into the mixture and cook until the vegetables are tender to your liking , about 30 minutes . Garnish individual portions with cilantro to serve . 
1/3 cup plain nonfat yogurt 1 tablespoon tandoori masala powder 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into 1-inch pieces 1/2 onion , chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger 1 clove garlic 2 tablespoons water 3 tablespoons cooking oil , divided 2 teaspoons garam masala 1/4 teaspoon Indian chili powder 1 cup tomato sauce 1 cup half and half 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon dried fenugreek leaves 1 teaspoon salt  | Stir the yogurt and tandoori masala powder together in a large bowl until thoroughly combined ; add the chicken and toss to coat evenly . Marinate in refrigerator for 1 hour . Drain and discard any excess marinade . Puree the onion , ginger , and garlic with the water in a blender until it forms a smooth paste ; set aside . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Cook the chicken in the hot oil until lightly browned on all sides , about 5 minutes . Remove from skillet and set aside . Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons in the skillet . Fry the onion paste in the hot oil until the moisture is mostly evaporated , about 3 minutes . Sprinkle the garam masala and chili powder over the mixture ; cook 1 minute more . Pour the tomato sauce into the mixture , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook another 5 minutes . Return the chicken to the pan along with the half and half ; bring to a boil . Add the butter , fenugreek leaves , and salt ; reduce heat to low and simmer uncovered until the chicken pieces are no longer pink in the middle , 15 to 20 minutes . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into bite-size pieces 1 large white onion , finely chopped 2 tablespoons ginger garlic paste 2 tablespoons curry powder 1/2 (2 inch) stick cinnamon stick , broken into pieces 8 pods whole green cardamom pods 4 bay leaves 6 whole cloves 1 tablespoon red pepper flakes , or to taste 15 whole black peppercorns 2 teaspoons coriander seeds  | Heat oil in a small pot over medium heat . Add chicken , onion , and ginger garlic paste . Season with curry powder , cinnamon stick , cardamom pods , bay leaves , cloves , red pepper flakes , black peppercorns , and coriander seeds . Cover , and simmer for about 30 minutes , stirring occasionally . At this point , gravy will be runny ; if you want to thicken , remove lid , and cook until liquid is reduced . 
1 cup yogurt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 teaspoons fresh ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons cayenne pepper 2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 3 boneless skinless chicken breasts , cut into bite-size pieces 4 long skewers 1 tablespoon butter 1 clove garlic , minced 1 jalapeno pepper , finely chopped 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons paprika 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | In a large bowl , combine yogurt , lemon juice , 2 teaspoons cumin , cinnamon , cayenne , black pepper , ginger , and salt . Stir in chicken , cover , and refrigerate for 1 hour . Preheat a grill for high heat . Lightly oil the grill grate . Thread chicken onto skewers , and discard marinade . Grill until juices run clear , about 5 minutes on each side . Melt butter in a large heavy skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic and jalapeno for 1 minute . Season with 2 teaspoons cumin , paprika , and 3 teaspoons salt . Stir in tomato sauce and cream . Simmer on low heat until sauce thickens , about 20 minutes . Add grilled chicken , and simmer for 10 minutes . Transfer to a serving platter , and garnish with fresh cilantro . 
3 cups grated cauliflower 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 large onion , diced 2 cloves garlic 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 tomato , diced 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1 teaspoon ground dried turmeric 2 teaspoons ground coriander seed 1 (12 ounce) can kidney beans , drained and rinsed 2 teaspoons garam masala  | Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion , garlic , and cumin seeds . Cook and stir until the onion has turned golden brown ; about 10 minutes . Stir in the diced tomato , cayenne pepper , salt , turmeric , and coriander . Continue cooking 2 more minutes , then stir in the cauliflower , and reduce heat to medium-low . Cook until the cauliflower is tender , about 10 minutes , stirring occasionally . Add the kidney beans ; cook and stir until heated through . Sprinkle with garam masala to serve . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into chunks 1/2 cup cornstarch 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 large onion , cut into chunks salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup cooking sherry 2 cubes beef bouillon 1/2 cup creamy peanut butter 3 tablespoons curry powder water to cover 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 cup coconut milk  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Coat chicken with cornstarch and place in skillet with garlic , onion , salt and pepper . Add sherry and beef bouillon and let liquid reduce a little . Stir in peanut butter and curry powder and add water to cover ; add ginger , reduce heat to low and simmer for 30 minutes , then lastly stir in coconut milk and serve hot . 
1/2 cup butter 1/4 cup diced onion 1 cup uncooked long grain white rice 2 cups water 1/2 teaspoon dried parsley flakes 1 pinch saffron threads 3 drops yellow food coloring (optional)  | Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-low , and continue cooking and stirring until the onion is very tender and dark brown , 15 to 20 minutes more . Pour in rice and stir to coat . Stir in water , parsley flakes , saffron , and 3 drops of yellow food coloring (optional) . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer until water is absorbed , about 30 minutes . 
4 cups water 2 cubes vegetable bouillon 1 cup raisins 1/4 cup olive oil 2 onions , chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 tablespoons minced ginger 2 cinnamon sticks 6 whole cloves 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon ground cumin 2 (19 ounce) cans garbanzo beans (chickpeas) 1 medium yam , peeled and diced 1 pear , peeled and cubed salt to taste 1 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Place water , bouillon cubes , and raisins in a saucepan over high heat . Bring to a boil , and simmer until bouillon cubes dissolve . Meanwhile , heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Add onion , garlic , and ginger ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add cinnamon sticks , cloves , cayenne , turmeric , coriander , and cumin ; cook for about 3 minutes until fragrant , stirring constantly . Stir garbanzo beans , yams , and pear into onions ; pour in hot vegetable stock and raisins . Bring to a simmer , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the vegetables have softened and the sauce has thickened , about 1 hour . Season to taste with salt and stir in chopped cilantro before serving . 
2 cups water 1 tea bag 1 bay leaf 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 onion , sliced 3 tomatoes , chopped 1/4 cup fresh cilantro leaves 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger root 1 teaspoon grated garlic 1 teaspoon ground turmeric (optional) 1 onion , finely chopped ground cayenne pepper to taste 1 pinch garam masala (optional)  | Place the 2 cups water , tea bag , and bay leaf into a pot , and bring water to a boil . Reserving about 1/2 cup garbanzo beans , stir the beans into the boiling water . When beans are heated through , discard the tea bag and bay leaf . Remove from heat . Drain the beans , reserving water , and set aside . Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a skillet over medium heat , and saute the sliced onion until tender . Remove from heat , cool , and mix in the reserved garbanzo beans , 1 tomato , and 1/2 the cilantro leaves . Set aside . Heat the remaining oil in a skillet over medium heat . Blend in the coriander , cumin seeds , ginger , and garlic . Cook and stir for 15 to 20 seconds , until lightly browned . Mix in the turmeric . Stir the chopped onion into the skillet , and cook until tender . Mix in the remaining tomatoes . Season with salt , cayenne pepper , and garam masala . Bring the tomato liquid to a boil , and cook about 5 minutes . Stir in the boiled garbanzo beans , sliced onion mixture , and enough of the reserved water to attain a thick , gravy-like consistency . Continue to cook and stir 5 minutes . Garnish with the remaining cilantro leaves to serve . 
2 cups water 1 cup uncooked brown rice 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 large onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 pound cod fillets , cut into chunks 1 1/2 tablespoons curry powder 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin salt and pepper to taste 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 1 (16 ounce) package frozen stir-fry vegetables 1 tablespoon cornstarch  | Bring the water and rice to a boil in a pot . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer 45 minutes . Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in the onion and garlic , and cook 1 minute . Mix in cod , and season with curry powder , chili powder , turmeric , cumin , salt , and pepper . Pour in the coconut milk , and mix in frozen vegetables . Cover , and cook 10 minutes , or until vegetables are tender and cod is easily flaked with a fork . Drain 1/2 cup liquid from the skillet into a bowl , and mix with cornstarch . Stir back into skillet to thicken sauce . Serve over the cooked rice . 
2 cups uncooked brown rice 6 cups water 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 large white onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons grated fresh ginger root 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 cup chunky natural peanut butter  | Place rice and water in a large saucepan and bring to a boil . Cover , and reduce heat to low . Simmer until rice is tender and water has absorbed , about 30 minutes . Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-low heat . Add onion , and cook until soft and golden , stirring frequently . Add garlic and ginger , and cook until fragrant , about 5 minutes . Stir in tomatoes , and season with cayenne pepper . Increase heat to medium , and bring to a gentle simmer . Stir in peanut butter and heat through . The mixture will thicken . Serve over rice . 
1/2 cup butter 2 teaspoons cumin seed 1 green chile pepper , seeded and diced 2 cloves garlic , chopped 2 tablespoons ground turmeric 1 pound chopped fresh mustard greens 1 pound chopped fresh spinach 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt  | In a large skillet or wok , melt butter over medium-high heat , and cook and stir cumin seed , chile pepper , garlic , and turmeric until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Stir in the chopped mustard greens and spinach a little at a time , adding the tougher parts first (the stems and thicker leaves) . Continue to add greens , and cook and stir until all greens have been added and all are thoroughly wilted . Stir in the cumin , coriander , and salt . Cover ; reduce heat and simmer until greens are tender , about 10 minutes , adding water as needed to keep the greens moist . 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 extra-large Spanish onion , chopped 2 tablespoons water (optional) 2 pounds lean ground beef 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger root 1 serrano chile pepper , finely chopped 2 teaspoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes 3 potatoes , peeled and diced 1 cup frozen green peas 1 teaspoon garam masala  | Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat . Cook and stir onion in the hot oil until soft and beginning to brown , about 12 minutes . If browned bits of onion are stuck to the bottom of the pan , stir water into onion and stir to loosen the browned bits . Mix ground beef , garlic , ginger , serrano chile , and cilantro into pan ; cook and stir until beef is browned and crumbly , 10 to 15 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-low . Stir coriander , salt , cumin , cayenne pepper , and turmeric into the beef ; cook and stir until flavors blend , about 5 minutes . Add tomatoes and potatoes , cover pot , and simmer until potatoes are tender , about 15 minutes . Mix green peas into dish and cook until sauce has slightly thickened and flavors have blended , 10 to 15 minutes . Sprinkle garam masala over the dish , cover , and let stand for 5 minutes before serving . 
1 onion , chopped 1 tomato , chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger , peeled and chopped 4 cloves garlic , chopped , or more to taste 1 green chile pepper , seeded and chopped (optional) 3 tablespoons olive oil 2 bay leaves , or more to taste 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon coriander powder 1 teaspoon garam masala 1/2 teaspoon turmeric powder 1 pinch salt to taste water as needed 1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas 1 teaspoon fresh cilantro leaves , for garnish , or more to taste  | Grind onion , tomato , ginger , garlic , and chile pepper together in a food processor into a paste . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Fry bay leaves in hot oil until fragrant , about 30 seconds . Pour the paste into the skillet and cook until the oil begins to separate from the mixture and is golden brown in color , 2 to 3 minutes . Season the mixture with chili powder , coriander , powder , gram masala , turmeric , and salt ; cook and stir until very hot , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir enough water into the mixture to get a thick gravy ; bring to a boil and stir chickpeas into the gravy . Reduce heat to medium and cook until the chickpeas are heated through , 5 to 7 minutes . Garnish with cilantro . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 1/2 onions , chopped 1 clove garlic 2 tablespoons water 8 tomatoes 1 large green bell pepper 1 tablespoon salt 2 teaspoons garam masala 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup butter 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces  | Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat . Finely chop the onions and garlic in a blender or food processor , and cook in the skillet until tender . Puree the tomatoes and green bell pepper in the blender or food processor , and mix into the skillet . Season with salt , garam masala , and chili powder . Stir in the cream and butter , and continue cooking until heated through . Mix the chicken into the skillet . Cover , and simmer 20 minutes , or until chicken juices run clear . 
1/3 cup ghee (clarified butter) 1 bulb garlic , peeled and minced 1/2 teaspoon toasted cumin seed 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 (3 inch) piece ginger , peeled and minced 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon salt 1 large onion , finely chopped 1 cup water , or as needed 1 (10 ounce) box frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 1 pound paneer , cut into 1/2-inch cubes 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon garam masala  | Melt ghee in a saucepan over medium-low heat . Stir in garlic and cumin seed ; cook until the garlic softens , about 3 minutes . Add tomato paste , ginger , 1 teaspoon garam masala , salt , onion , and water . Increase heat to medium , and stir until the tomato paste dissolves . Simmer slowly for 1 hour , adding water as needed to maintain a sauce-like consistency . Stir in spinach and cook until hot , about 5 minutes . Add paneer , and allow to cook an additional 5 minutes , or until hot . Pour into a serving dish and sprinkle with cilantro and remaining garam masala . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 4 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 cup onion , chopped 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger root 1/8 teaspoon garam masala 2 teaspoons channa masala spice mix 1 large tomato , chopped 1 1/2 cups water 2 (15.5 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , drained and rinsed salt to taste  | Heat oil in a saucepan over medium-high heat . Stir in the garlic , onion , and ginger , and cook until browned . Stir in the garam masala , channa masala spice , tomato , water , and garbanzos ; season to taste with salt . Bring to a simmer , the reduce heat to low , cover and simmer until garbanzos are very soft , about 20 minutes . 
1/3 cup vinegar 4 cloves garlic 1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1/2 cup vegetable oil 2 pounds thick catfish fillets , cut into large chunks  | Blend the vinegar , garlic , ginger , salt , cayenne , coriander , cumin , and oil in a blender until you have a thick paste . Brush the fish chunks with the mixture to coat evenly and place in a shallow dish ; pour the remaining marinade over the fish . Allow to marinate in refrigerator at least 4 hours . Preheat the oven's broiler . Arrange the marinated fish in a broiler-safe dish , reserving the marinade . Broil the fish under the preheated broiler on the oven's center rack for 10 minutes ; turn the fish and brush with reserved marinade . Continue cooking until the fish flakes easily with a fork , about 7 minutes more . Serve hot . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 large onions , diced 1 tablespoon ginger-garlic paste 2 large tomatoes , diced 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or more to taste 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground cumin 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into bite-size pieces 2 large red-skinned potatoes , chopped 1/2 cup fresh cilantro  | Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir the onions in the hot oil until translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the ginger-garlic paste and continue cooking another 5 minutes . Reduce heat to medium ; stir the tomatoes into the mixture and cook until the tomatoes are pulpy , 5 to 10 minutes . Season with the cayenne pepper , curry powder , garam masala , turmeric , and cumin ; cook and stir another 5 minutes . Add the chicken and potatoes to the mixture in the skillet ; simmer , stirring occasionally , until the potatoes are tender and the chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 20 minutes . Sprinkle the cilantro over the mixture and continue simmering another 10 minutes . Serve hot . 
2 tablespoons smoked paprika 1 tablespoon chili powder 7 1/2 teaspoons curry powder 4 1/2 teaspoons onion powder 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon rubbed sage 1 pinch ground ginger (optional) 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup chicken broth 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 (2 1/2 pound) whole chicken , rinsed and patted dry 1 cup chicken broth 3 cups water 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 2 tablespoons butter 2 1/4 cups dry couscous 1 tablespoon curry powder 2 teaspoons onion powder 2 teaspoons smoked paprika 1/2 teaspoon rubbed sage 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1 bay leaf  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Stir together 2 tablespoons of smoked paprika , chili powder , 7 1/2 teaspoons curry powder , 4 1/2 teaspoons onion powder , salt , 1 teaspoon garlic powder , black pepper , 1/4 teaspoon sage , and ginger in a small bowl . Pour in 2 tablespoons lemon juice , 1/2 cup chicken broth , and vegetable oil ; stir to form a paste . Rub a little of the paste on the inside cavity of the chicken , then massage the remaining paste all over the chicken , placing it under the skin where you can . Truss the chicken if desired , and place onto a roasting pan . Roast in preheated oven until the chicken is no longer pink and the juices run clear , about 90 minutes . If using a meat thermometer , be sure the chicken has reached at least 165 degrees F (75 degrees C) in the thickest part of the thigh . While the chicken is roasting , bring 1 cup chicken broth , water , 2 tablespoons lemon juice , and butter to a boil in a large saucepan . Stir together the couscous 1 tablespoon curry powder , 2 teaspoons onion powder , 2 teaspoons paprika , 1/2 teaspoon sage , 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder , and the bay leaf in a large bowl . Stir the couscous into the boiling liquid , and cook for 3 minutes . Turn the heat off and cover . Keep the couscous warm until the chicken is ready . 
2 cups durum wheat flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup water 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | In a medium bowl , stir together the flour , salt , water and oil , until the mixture pulls away from the sides . Turn the dough out onto a well floured surface . Knead until smooth and pliable , about 10 minutes . Preheat an unoiled skillet or tava to medium high heat . Divide dough into 12 equal parts , form into rounds and cover with a damp cloth . Flatten the balls with the palm of your hand , then use a rolling pin to roll out each piece into a 6 to 8 inch diameter round . Cook the roti for 1 minute before turning over , then turn again after another minute . The roti should have some darker brown spots when finished . Best served warm . 
2 tablespoons warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1/4 cup warm milk 1/4 cup plain yogurt , room temperature 4 tablespoons melted butter 3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon nigella seeds (kalonji) (optional)  | Put warm water in a small bowl , add sugar and yeast and stir until dissolved . Set aside for 5-10 minutes or until it foams . Blend in the warm milk , yogurt and melted margarine . In a large bowl , mix flour , salt , baking powder and poppy seeds . Pour in the yeast/milk mixture all at once and work it into the flour , using your hands . Continue mixing , adding flour or water as needed , until the mixture leaves the sides of the bowl . Knead for 6 to 8 minutes or until smooth and elastic . Place in a lightly oiled bowl and turn to coat . Cover with a damp cloth and let stand in a warm place to rise for about 4 hours or until doubled in volume . Preheat oven to 550 degrees F (285 degrees C) or your oven's highest setting and set a rack in the lower third of the oven . Place a large pizza pan or iron griddle on the rack and preheat . Also preheat the broiler . Punch the dough down and knead briefly . Divide into six pieces and shape them into balls . Place them on an oiled plate and cover with lightly oiled plastic wrap . Let balls rest for 10 to 15 minutes . Roll out and stretch each ball until it is about 10 inches long and 5 inches wide . Remove the pizza pan from the oven , brush with oil and place one of pieces of bread on it . Bake at 550 degrees F (285 degrees C) for about 4 to 5 minutes until bread is puffed and has brown spots , then transfer to a wire rack , returning pizza pan to oven to keep hot . Place bread under broiler until 'charcoal' dots appear on the surface . Wrap finished bread in a towel while baking the remaining loaves . (If your pizza pan is big enough , try baking two loaves at the time.) 
5 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 tablespoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 6 potatoes , diced 1 (10 ounce) package frozen mixed peas and carrots 3 tablespoons water , or as needed  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add the onion , and season with cumin , turmeric , coriander , chili powder and salt . Cook and stir until onion is browned . Reduce the heat to medium , and stir in the potatoes , carrots and peas . Stir to coat , then cover and cook until potatoes are tender , about 20 minutes . Stir occasionally , and add water if necessary to keep food from sticking to the pan . 
2 tablespoons cooking oil 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon red chile powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 large onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 cup chopped canned tomatoes 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cubed 1/4 cup chicken stock 2 tablespoons ground almonds 1/4 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup plain yogurt  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Combine the ginger , chili powder , cinnamon , turmeric , and pepper ; stir into the hot oil and cook for 5 seconds . Add the onion and garlic ; stir and cook until onions become transparent , about 7 minutes . Stir in the tomatoes and chicken , and cook until chicken is no longer pink , 5 to 8 minutes . Combine the chicken stock with the chicken-onion mixture ; stir and cook 3 minutes . Stir in the almonds , cream , and yogurt ; continue cooking 2 to 4 minutes . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon cumin seed 2 medium onions , finely chopped 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper to taste 1 teaspoon garam masala 1 clove garlic , minced 1 tablespoon minced ginger 5 peeled , seeded , and chopped tomatoes 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed  | Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in cumin seed and cook until they start to pop , 20 to 45 seconds . Stir in onion , and cook until golden brown , about 5 minutes . Season with turmeric , cayenne , garam masala , garlic , and ginger . Cook for 1 to 2 minutes until fragrant . Puree the mixture with the tomatoes in a blender until smooth . Return the puree to the saucepan , and add the chicken . Simmer gently until the chicken has cooked , about 20 minutes ; add water as needed while cooking to maintain desired consistency . 
3 cups cooked white rice 2 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 1/2 cup celery , sliced 1/4 cup green onions , chopped 1/4 cup chopped red bell pepper 1 cup sour cream 1/4 cup mayonnaise 3 tablespoons peach or mango chutney 2 teaspoons ground curry powder 3/4 teaspoon seasoned salt 2 tablespoons pine nuts  | In a large bowl , combine the rice , chicken , celery , green onions , bell peppers , sour cream , mayonnaise , chutney , curry and salt . Mix well , cover and refrigerate until chilled . Sprinkle with pine nuts before serving . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 2/3 cup water 1/4 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | In a large bowl , stir together flour , salt and water until a soft dough is formed . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead briefly . Divide dough into golf ball size pieces and cover with a damp cloth or plastic wrap . Select a ball of dough and roll out until very thin but not torn . Sprinkle lightly and evenly with sugar . Fold up dough into a small square and roll out again until thin . Heat a lightly oiled griddle over medium heat . Place the rolled dough onto the pan and cook for 1/2 to 1 minute on each side until golden . Serve immediately . Repeat until all dough balls have been rolled and cooked . 
2 cups bread flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2/3 cup water  | In a large bowl , sift together flour and salt . Add oil and mix in with a fork until flour is crumbly . Mix in water until the dough pulls together . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic , about 8 minutes . Cover and set aside for 45 minutes . Knead dough again until smooth ; divide into six equal parts . Form each part into a round . Roll out each round as thinly as possible ; dust with flour to keep from sticking . Invert a heavy cast iron pan over burner and heat . Spread roti over pan and cook . Roti will cook in 40 to 50 seconds . Tiny black spots will appear when it is finished . Fold Roti and serve hot . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 cup Basmati rice 2 cups water 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon garam masala 3/4 cup frozen mixed vegetables  | In a large pan heat oil over medium heat and saute onions and cumin until onions are tender , but not browned . Rinse the rise several times and drain well . Add the rice to the pan with the onions and pour in the 2 cups of water . Stir in salt , garam masala and vegetables . Cover the pan and increase the heat to high . Bring the mixture to a boil and then reduce the heat to low , keeping the rice covered at all times . After cooking for about 10 minutes , gently stir the rice to distribute the spices evenly . Cook 25 to 30 minutes , or until all of the water has evaporated and the rice is tender . 
2 bunches spinach , roughly chopped 1 bunch fenugreek leaves , roughly chopped 1 tablespoon canola oil 1/2 pound paneer , cubed 2 tablespoons canola oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tomato , diced 2 teaspoons garam masala 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream salt to taste  | Bring a large saucepan of water to a boil . Cook spinach and fenugreek in the boiling water until wilted , about 3 minutes . Drain well and transfer to a food processor . Puree until finely chopped , about 5 pulses . Heat 1 tablespoon canola oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Fry paneer cubes , stirring constantly , until browned on all sides , about 5 minutes . Set aside . Heat 2 tablespoons canola oil in the skillet and fry the cumin seeds until lightly toasted and aromatic , about 3 minutes . Add onion ; cook and stir until onion begins to soften , 4 to 5 minutes . Stir in ginger , garlic , tomato , garam masala , turmeric , and cayenne pepper ; cook and stir until tomatoes break down and onions are translucent , about 10 minutes . Stir in spinach and fenugreek , cream , paneer cubes , and salt to taste . Cover and cook for 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . 
2 tomatoes , diced 1 onion , chopped 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger , peeled and roughly chopped 1 tablespoon rice flour 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 2 (15 ounce) cans garbanzo beans , rinsed and drained 1 teaspoon curry powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro  | Combine the tomatoes , about half the onion , the ginger , and rice flour in a blender ; blend into a paste . Heat the oil and cumin seeds in a large skillet over medium-high heat until the cumin swells and turns golden brown . Cook the remaining onion in the hot oil for about 3 minutes . Stir the blended tomato mixture , garbanzo beans , curry powder , and salt into the onions ; cover and cook until hot , about 5 minutes . Garnish with the cilantro to serve . 
1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast , cut in bite-sized pieces 1 (14.5 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 cup plain yogurt 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 1 tablespoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons garam masala 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 2 teaspoons paprika 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup heavy whipping cream 1/4 cup fresh cilantro , chopped lemon , juiced  | Stir chicken , tomato sauce , yogurt , jalapeno pepper , ginger , cumin , garam masala , black pepper , paprika , garlic , cinnamon , coriander , and salt together in a slow cooker . Cook on Low for 6 to 8 hours . Stir cream , cilantro , and lemon juice into chicken mixture during the last 30 minutes of cooking . 
1 cup fat-free plain yogurt 1/2 tablespoon cayenne pepper 6 cloves garlic , minced 2 (2 inch) pieces fresh ginger root , minced 2 tablespoons cilantro , finely chopped 1 tablespoon ground coriander seed 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric 4 (6 ounce) skinless , boneless salmon fillets  | Combine the yogurt , cayenne pepper , garlic , ginger , cilantro , ground coriander , cumin , salt and turmeric in a resealable plastic bag . Close bag and mix everything together until evenly combined . Add the salmon and toss until well coated with the marinade ; marinate overnight . Preheat the oven broiler . Lightly grease a baking pan . Remove salmon from marinade and shake off excess ; discard remaining marinade . Place onto prepared baking pan and broil in preheated oven until salmon flakes easily with a fork , five to seven minutes per side . 
1 cup red lentils 1 cup brown lentils 8 cups water 1/2 teaspoon turmeric 1 tablespoon canola oil 1 large onion , diced 2 tomatoes , cored and chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 1/2 tablespoons curry powder , or to taste 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 cups peeled , cubed (1-inch) , seeded pumpkin 2 potatoes , unpeeled and chopped 2 carrots , peeled and diced 2 cups packed fresh spinach , chopped 1 Granny Smith apple , unpeeled , cored and diced  | Place the red and brown lentils in a pan with the water and turmeric . Cook over medium-low heat until tender , about 45 minutes . Drain , reserving 2 1/2 cups of the cooking liquid . Meanwhile , heat the canola oil in a large , deep pot over medium heat . Stir in the onion , and cook until tender and transparent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the tomatoes and garlic ; cook 5 minutes more , stirring occasionally . Mix in the curry powder , cumin , salt , pepper , and cloves . Add the cooked lentils , reserved cooking liquid , pumpkin , potatoes , and carrots . Cover , and cook over medium-low heat until the vegetables are tender , 35 to 45 minutes . Stir in the spinach and apple . Cook until the pumpkin can be easily pierced with a fork , about 15 minutes more . Adjust seasonings to taste . 
