2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 5 large Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch cubes 1 large carrot , coarsely shredded 2 pounds cooked corned beef , cubed 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme leaves salt to taste (optional) 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste  | Melt butter with the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook the onion just until it begins to brown , about 8 minutes ; stir in the potatoes and carrot , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cubed corned beef , parsley , thyme , salt , and pepper . Let the mixture cook until hash is crisp and browned , stirring often , 10 to 15 more minutes . 
2 pounds lean beef stew meat , cut into 1-inch cubes 3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 large onions , chopped 1 clove garlic , crushed 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 1/2 cups Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 2 cups chopped carrot 1 sprig fresh thyme 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley for garnish  | Toss the beef cubes with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil . In a separate bowl , stir together the flour , salt , pepper , and cayenne pepper . Dredge the beef in this to coat . Heat the remaining oil in a deep skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat . Add the beef , and brown on all sides . Add the onions , and garlic . Stir the tomato paste into a small amount of water to dilute ; pour into the pan and stir to blend . Reduce the heat to medium , cover , and cook for 5 minutes . Pour 1/2 cup of the beer into the pan , and as it begins to boil , scrape any bits of food from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . This adds a lot of flavor to the broth . Pour in the rest of the beer , and add the carrots and thyme . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer for 2 to 3 hours , stirring occasionally . Taste and adjust seasoning before serving . Garnish with chopped parsley . 
2 (10.75 ounce) cans condensed cream of chicken soup 3 cups water 1 cup chopped celery 2 onions , quartered 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 5 carrots , sliced 1 (10 ounce) package frozen green peas 4 potatoes , quartered 3 cups baking mix 1 1/3 cups milk  | In large , heavy pot , combine soup , water , chicken , celery , onion , salt , poultry seasoning , and pepper . Cover and cook over low heat about 1 1/2 hours . Add potatoes and carrots ; cover and cook another 30 minutes . Remove chicken from pot , shred it , and return to pot . Add peas and cook only 5 minutes longer . Add dumplings . To make dumplings : Mix baking mix and milk until a soft dough forms . Drop by tablespoonfuls onto BOILING stew . Simmer covered for 10 minutes , then uncover and simmer an additional 10 minutes . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/3 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 egg , lightly beaten 2 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup butter , melted  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . Combine flour , baking powder , sugar , salt and baking soda . Blend egg and buttermilk together , and add all at once to the flour mixture . Mix just until moistened . Stir in butter . Pour into prepared pan . Bake for 65 to 70 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the bread comes out clean . Cool on a wire rack . Wrap in foil for several hours , or overnight , for best flavor . 
4 pounds corned beef brisket 1 cup brown sugar 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer (e.g . Guinness®)  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Rinse the beef completely and pat dry . Place the brisket on rack in a roasting pan or Dutch oven . Rub the brown sugar on the corned beef to coat entire beef , including the bottom . Pour the bottle of stout beer around , and gently over the beef to wet the sugar . Cover , and place in preheated oven . Bake for 2 1/2 hours . Allow to rest 5 minutes before slicing . 
1/2 cup white sugar 4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 3/4 teaspoon salt 3 cups raisins 1 tablespoon caraway seeds 2 eggs , lightly beaten 1 1/4 cups buttermilk 1 cup sour cream  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9 inch round cast iron skillet or a 9 inch round baking or cake pan . In a mixing bowl , combine flour (reserving 1 tablespoon) , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , salt , raisins and caraway seeds . In a small bowl , blend eggs , buttermilk and sour cream . Stir the liquid mixture into flour mixture just until flour is moistened . Knead dough in bowl about 10 to 12 strokes . Dough will be sticky . Place the dough in the prepared skillet or pan and pat down . Cut a 4x3/4 inch deep slit in the top of the bread . Dust with reserved flour Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 65 to 75 minutes . Let cool and turn bread onto a wire rack . 
2 1/2 pounds potatoes , peeled and cubed 4 slices bacon 1/2 small head cabbage , chopped 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup milk salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup butter , melted  | Place potatoes in a saucepan with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook for 15 to 20 minutes , until tender . Place bacon in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain , reserving drippings , crumble and set aside . In the reserved drippings , saute the cabbage and onion until soft and translucent . Putting a lid on the pan helps the vegetables cook faster . Drain the cooked potatoes , mash with milk and season with salt and pepper . Fold in the bacon , cabbage , and onions , then transfer the mixture to a large serving bowl . Make a well in the center , and pour in the melted butter . Serve immediately . 
1 1/2 pounds thickly sliced bacon , diced 6 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup water 4 cups beef stock 2 teaspoons white sugar 4 cups diced carrots 2 large onions , cut into bite-size pieces 3 potatoes 1 teaspoon dried thyme 2 bay leaves 1 cup white wine  | Place bacon in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain , crumble , and set aside . Put lamb , salt , pepper , and flour in large mixing bowl . Toss to coat meat evenly . Brown meat in frying pan with bacon fat . Place meat into stock pot (leave 1/4 cup of fat in frying pan) . Add the garlic and yellow onion and saute till onion begins to become golden . Deglaze frying pan with 1/2 cup water and add the garlic-onion mixture to the stock pot with bacon pieces , beef stock , and sugar . Cover and simmer for 1 1/2 hours . Add carrots , onions , potatoes , thyme , bay leaves , and wine to pot . Reduce heat , and simmer covered for 20 minutes until vegetables are tender . 
4 slices bacon , cut into small pieces 2 1/2 pounds boneless beef chuck , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 teaspoon salt , or more to taste freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 onions , coarsely chopped 1/2 teaspoon salt 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 (14.9 ounce) can dark beer (such as Guinness®) 1/4 cup tomato paste 4 sprigs fresh thyme 3 carrots , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 stalks celery , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper , or to taste 2 1/2 cups chicken stock , or as needed to cover 4 cups mashed potatoes (optional)  | Cook and stir bacon in a heavy skillet over medium-high heat until bacon is browned and crisp , 3 to 4 minutes . Turn off heat and transfer bacon into a large stew pot , reserving bacon fat in the skillet . Season beef chuck cubes generously with 1 teaspoon salt and black pepper to taste . Turn heat to high under skillet and sear beef pieces in the hot fat on both sides until browned , about 5 minutes . Place beef in stew pot with bacon , leaving fat in skillet . Turn heat down to medium ; cook and stir onions in the retained fat in the skillet until lightly browned , 5 to 8 minutes ; season with a large pinch of salt . Cook garlic with onions until soft , about 1 minute ; pour beer into skillet and stir with a wooden spoon , scraping up and dissolving any browned bits of food into the liquid . Pour cooking liquid from skillet into the stew pot . Stir in tomato paste , thyme sprigs , carrots , celery , sugar , 1/2 teaspoon black pepper , and enough chicken broth to cover . Bring stew to a gentle simmer , stirring to combine ; reduce heat to low and cover pot . Simmer stew until beef is fork-tender , about 2 hours . Stir stew occasionally and skim fat or foam if desired . Remove cover and raise heat to medium-high . Bring stew to a low boil and cook until stew has slightly thickened , 15 to 20 minutes . Remove and discard thyme sprigs and adjust salt and pepper to taste . Arrange mashed potatoes in a ring in a serving bowl ; ladle stew into the center of the potatoes . 
1 (5 pound) flat-cut corned beef brisket 1 tablespoon browning sauce (such as Kitchen Bouquet®) , or as desired 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , sliced 6 cloves garlic , sliced 2 tablespoons water  | Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C) . Discard any flavoring packet from corned beef . Brush brisket with browning sauce on both sides . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat and brown brisket on both sides in the hot oil , 5 to 8 minutes per side . Place brisket on a rack set in a roasting pan . Scatter onion and garlic slices over brisket and add water to roasting pan . Cover pan tightly with aluminum foil . Roast in the preheated oven until meat is tender , about 6 hours . 
2 teaspoons butter 1 (15 ounce) can chicken broth 1 head cabbage , cored and coarsely chopped 1 pinch salt and pepper to taste  | Bring the butter and chicken broth to a boil in a large skillet . Reduce heat to low and add the cabbage . Cover and cook over low heat to steam the cabbage for about 45 minutes , stirring frequently , or until cabbage is tender and sweet . Season with salt and pepper and serve . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 1 pint sour cream 1 cup raisins  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease two 8x4 inch loaf pans . Mix the flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder and salt . Add the eggs , sour cream and raisins and mix until just combined . Distribute batter evenly between the two pans . Bake loaves at 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) for 1 hour . 
1 pound cabbage 1 pound potatoes 2 leeks 1 cup milk salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch ground mace 1/2 cup butter  | In a large saucepan , boil cabbage until tender ; remove and chop or blend well . Set aside and keep warm . Boil potatoes until tender . Remove from heat and drain . Chop leeks , green parts as well as white , and simmer them in just enough milk to cover , until they are soft . Season and mash potatoes well . Stir in cooked leeks and milk . Blend in the kale or cabbage and heat until the whole is a pale green fluff . Make a well in the center and pour in the melted butter . Mix well . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon butter 1 onion , diced 2 pounds lean ground lamb 1/3 cup all-purpose flour salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 teaspoons minced fresh rosemary 1 teaspoon paprika 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon ketchup 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 1/2 cups water , or as needed 1 (12 ounce) package frozen peas and carrots , thawed 2 1/2 pounds Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and halved 1 tablespoon butter 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper 1/4 cup cream cheese 1/4 pound Irish cheese (such as Dubliner®) , shredded salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 egg yolk 2 tablespoons milk  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place olive oil and butter in Dutch oven over medium heat . Stir in onion and ground lamb ; brown the meat , breaking it up into small crumbles as it cooks , about 10 minutes . Stir in flour until incorporated , then mix in salt , black pepper , rosemary , paprika , cinnamon , ketchup , and garlic ; cook and stir until garlic is fragrant , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in water and scrape up any brown bits from the bottom of the Dutch oven . Reduce heat to medium-low and bring mixture to a simmer ; cook and stir until thick , about 5-6 minutes . Remove lamb mixture from heat and stir in peas and carrots until combined . Spread lamb mixture into the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish and set aside . Place potatoes into a large pan of salted water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to medium , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes . Drain well and return potatoes to pan . Mash butter , cayenne pepper , cream cheese , and Irish cheese into the potatoes . Mash until combined and potatoes are smooth . Season to taste with salt and black pepper . Whisk together egg yolk and milk in a small bowl ; stir into the mashed potato mixture . Top the lamb mixture in the baking dish with the mashed potatoes and spread evenly to cover . Bake in the preheated oven until the top is golden brown and sauce is bubbling up around the edges , 25 to 30 minutes . 
4 1/2 pounds corned beef , rinsed 1 cup water 1 cup apricot preserves 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons soy sauce  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat a large pan with non-stick cooking spray . Place corned beef in dish and add water . Cover tightly with aluminum foil and bake for 2 hours ; drain liquid . In a small bowl combine apricot preserves , brown sugar , and soy sauce . Spread the apricot mixture evenly over the corned beef . Bake uncovered at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) 25 to 30 more minutes , or until the meat is tender ; basting occasionally with pan drippings . Slice corned beef across grain and serve . 
1/4 cup butter , softened 1/2 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 cups confectioners' sugar 2 1/2 cups flaked coconut 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon  | In a medium bowl , beat the butter and cream cheese together until smooth . Add the vanilla and confectioners' sugar ; beat until smooth . Using your hands if necessary , mix in the coconut . Roll into balls or potato shapes , and roll in the cinnamon . Place onto a cookie sheet and chill to set . If desired , roll potatoes in cinnamon again for darker color . 
Irish Stew : 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (3 pound) beef chuck roast , trimmed of fat and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 cup coarsely chopped onion 1 cup coarsely chopped carrot 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle dark beer 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce Colcannon : 3 slices bacon 2 pounds russet potatoes , peeled and cut into chunks 2 cups thinly sliced cabbage 1/4 cup milk , warmed 2 tablespoons butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Heat the vegetable oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until very hot , and brown the meat in 2 batches , stirring to brown the cubes on all sides . Return all the meat to the Dutch oven , sprinkle with flour , and stir lightly to coat the meat with flour . Stir in onion , carrots , dark beer , bay leaves , thyme , 1 teaspoon salt , 1/2 teaspoon pepper , garlic , and Worcestershire sauce . Bring the mixture to a boil , and cover . Place the Dutch oven into the preheated oven , and cook for 45 minutes ; uncover , stir the stew , and cook until the beef is very tender and the liquid is reduced by half , about 45 more minutes . Place the bacon in a large , deep skillet , and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate . Crumble the bacon and set aside . About 30 minutes before the stew is ready , make the colcannon : Place the potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Place the cabbage into a microwave-safe bowl , and add 1 or 2 tablespoons of water . Cover and microwave on High for about 2 1/2 minutes ; uncover (watch out for steam) and stir the cabbage . Cover and microwave for about 2 1/2 more minutes , until the cabbage is slightly tender but not mushy . Drain excess liquid , and set the cabbage aside , covered . Place the potatoes into a large bowl , and add milk , butter , 1/2 teaspoon of salt , and 1/4 teaspoon of pepper . Beat the potatoes with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy . Stir in the cabbage , crumbled bacon , and parsley until well combined . To serve , place a scoop of colcannon onto a plate , make a hollow , and fill with braised beef stew . 
4 1/2 pounds corned beef brisket 5 black peppercorns 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 onion , peeled and left whole 2 bay leaves 1 pinch salt 1 small head cabbage , cored and cut into wedges 6 large potatoes , quartered 4 large carrots , peeled and sliced 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons butter  | In a 6 quart Dutch oven , Place the beef brisket , peppercorns , garlic powder , onion , bay leaves and salt . Fill pan with water to cover everything plus one inch . Bring to a boil and cook for 20 minutes . Skim off any residue that floats to the top . Reduce heat to a simmer and cook for 2 to 3 hours , until meat can be pulled apart with a fork . Once the meat is done , add the cabbage , potatoes and carrots , pressing them down into the liquid . Simmer for an additional 15 minutes or until the potatoes are tender . Skim off any oil that comes to the surface . Stir in the butter and parsley . Remove the pot from the heat . Remove meat from the pot and place onto a serving dish and let rest for 15 minutes . Also remove vegetables to a bowl and keep warm . Slice meat on the diagonal against the grain . Serve meat on a platter and spoon juices over meat and vegetables . 
1 (5 1/2 pound) corned beef brisket 2 tablespoons pickling spice 1 large orange , sliced in rounds 2 stalks celery , sliced 1 large onion , sliced 1/2 cup cold water 6 tablespoons margarine , divided 1 large head cabbage , cored and sliced 1 cup Golden Delicious apples , cored and quartered with peel 1/4 cup cold water  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Line a 9x13 inch roasting pan with aluminum foil , leaving enough extra extending over the sides to cover and seal in the roast . Rinse the brisket , and pat dry . Rub with pickling spice , and place in the prepared roasting pan . Arrange celery , orange and onion slices on and around the roast . Pour in 1/2 cup of water , and wrap aluminum foil up over the roast tightly , making sure the ends are sealed . Bake for about 4 hours in the preheated oven , or until meat is tender . About 45 minutes before the roasts time is up , heat 3 tablespoons of margarine and 1/4 cup of water in a large pot . Add cabbage and apples , cover , and simmer over low heat for about 30 minutes . Occasionally shake the pot so that nothing sticks to the bottom . Serve with remaining margarine and sliced corned beef . 
2 cups peeled and shredded potatoes 1/2 cup melted butter 2 eggs , beaten 1 teaspoon minced onion 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon paprika 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter a 1.5 quart baking dish . In a medium bowl , combine the potatoes , butter , eggs , onion , salt and paprika . Mix well . Place potato mixture into the prepared baking dish and pour milk over top . Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes . Sprinkle top with cheese , return to oven and bake until cheese melts and is slightly browned . 
2 teaspoons vegetable oil 1 pound lean beef stew meat 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 small onion , chopped 2 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 6 cloves garlic , minced 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 cups beef broth 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer 4 cups sliced carrot 2 large potatoes , peeled and diced 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon cold water 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley  | Heat oil in a Dutch oven or large pot over medium-high heat . Coat beef cubes with flour , shaking off the excess . Fry beef cubes until browned on all sides . Remove from the pot . Add the onion , mushrooms , and garlic to the pot , and cook stirring constantly until onion is tender , about 3 minutes . Return beef to the pot , and stir in tomato paste , beef broth , and beer . Add potatoes and carrots , cover , and simmer over low heat for about 1 hour . Mix together the cornstarch and cold water . Stir into the stew , and simmer until thickened . Sprinkle with parsley and serve . 
1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vinegar 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon baking soda  | Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a cup or small bowl , stir together the milk and vinegar . Let stand 10 minutes , or until curdled . In a medium bowl , stir together the flour , salt and baking soda . Stir in the curdled milk mixture until smooth . Scrape the dough out of the bowl onto a floured surface , and shape into a disc . Place the disc into a cast iron skillet . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the crust feels firm to the touch . 
1/2 pound Irish bacon , diced 2 large potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 cup chicken stock , or as needed Salt and black pepper to taste 2 cups thinly sliced dark green Savoy cabbage leaves  | Place bacon in a large , deep stockpot or saucepan . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain off any excess fat . Stir in potatoes , tomatoes , and enough chicken stock to cover . Season with salt and pepper . Bring to a boil , reduce heat and let simmer for 20 minutes , or until potatoes are tender . Stir in cabbage and allow the soup to simmer for a few minutes longer before serving . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 2/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup margarine 5 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons caraway seed 2 1/2 cups raisins 2 cups buttermilk 3 tablespoons milk (optional) 3 tablespoons sour cream (optional)  | Combine flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a large bowl . Use fingers or a pastry cutter to press in butter or margarine , like a pie crust . When mixture looks fine and crumbly , add raisins and caraway seeds . Mix together and then add eggs , buttermilk , and sour cream . If mixture is not moist , add milk . Pour into two greased and lightly floured loaf pans or a frying pan . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 45 to 60 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the bread comes out clean . 
1 cup milk 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt  | Stir the milk and vinegar together , and allow to stand until curdled , about 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Grease a baking sheet . In a bowl , mix together the flour , sugar , baking soda , and salt . Gradually stir the soured milk into the flour mixture until the dough just comes together , and turn the dough out onto a well-floured surface . Knead a few times , and shape into a round . Place the dough onto the prepared baking sheet . With a sharp knife , cut an X shape into the top of the dough to release steam and help the bread keep its round shape . Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown , about 45 minutes . 
1/2 cup butter , softened 1 cup white sugar 2 eggs 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup milk 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 9-inch round pan . In a medium bowl , cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy . Beat in the eggs , one at a time , mixing until fully incorporated ; stir in the vanilla . Combine the flour , baking powder and salt ; stir into the batter alternately with the milk . If the batter is too stiff , a tablespoon or two of milk may be added . Spread the batter evenly into the prepared pan . Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in the preheated oven , until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean . Cool in pan on a wire rack , then turn out onto a serving plate . Dust with confectioners' sugar right before serving . 
4 cups whole wheat flour 1 cup bread flour 1/3 cup rolled oats 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/2 cups buttermilk  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Lightly grease two baking sheets . In a large bowl , stir together whole wheat flour , white flour , rolled oats , baking soda and salt . Gently mix in the buttermilk until a soft dough is formed . Knead very lightly . Divide dough into 4 pieces ; form into rounded flat loaves . Mark each loaf with an 'X' and place on prepared baking sheets . Bake in preheated oven until golden brown , about 30 to 45 minutes . 
2 pounds potatoes , peeled and halved 1 cup milk 1 bunch green onions , thinly sliced 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 cup butter 1 pinch freshly ground black pepper to taste  | Place potatoes into large pot , and fill with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain well . Return to very low heat and allow the potatoes to dry out for a few minutes . (It helps if you place a clean dish towel over the potatoes to absorb any remaining moisture.) Meanwhile , heat the milk and green onions gently in a saucepan , until warm . Mash the potatoes , salt and butter together until smooth . Stir in the milk and green onion until evenly mixed . Season with freshly ground black pepper . Serve piping hot in bowls . Set out some extra butter for individuals to add to their servings . 
cooking spray 1 1/2 pounds russet potatoes , peeled and cut into 1 1/2-inch thick slices 6 tablespoons butter , cut into pieces 1 cup milk salt and pepper , to taste 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 pound ground turkey 1 medium onion , chopped 2 (1 ounce) packages instant chicken gravy mix 1 cup water 1 (16 ounce) package frozen peas and carrots , thawed 2 cups shredded cheese of choice  | Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium baking dish . Cover potatoes with water in a saucepan and boil for 20 to 30 minutes , or until fork-tender . Drain and beat until smooth with an electric mixer . Add butter , milk , and salt and pepper to taste ; beat to desired consistency . Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Cook and stir turkey and onion until turkey is fully cooked . Add gravy mix and water ; stir often , until gravy is thick and bubbly . Season with salt and pepper . Add turkey mixture to the baking dish . Next , layer the peas and carrots , and top with the mashed potatoes . Top with a layer of shredded cheese . Bake in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes , or until cheese is melted and the potatoes are golden on the top . 
1 cup regular rolled oats , plus additional 2 cups whole wheat flour 1/2 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons baking soda 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup melted butter 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 cup buttermilk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Guinness® beer  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Grease an 8x8 inch baking pan . Mix together the oats , flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , and salt in a bowl . In a separate large bowl , stir together the butter , vanilla , buttermilk , and Guinness(R) beer . Pour the flour mixture into the beer mixture , and gently stir until well blended . Pour batter into the prepared baking pan , and sprinkle with additional oats if desired . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , then turn the temperature down to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) , and bake for an additional 30 minutes . Turn the oven off , open the door , and allow to cool for 30 minutes in the oven before turning out onto a wire rack . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 pounds beef chuck , cut into 1 1/2-inch cubes 1 pound carrots , peeled and cut into 1-inch chunks 6 large potatoes , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 white onion , cut into large chunks 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups beef broth 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer (e.g . Guinness®) 1 tablespoon cold water 1 tablespoon cornstarch  | Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Toss beef cubes with flour to coat , then fry in the hot oil until browned . Place the carrots , potatoes , onion and garlic in a large slow cooker . Place the meat on top of the vegetables . Mix together the beef broth and tomato paste and pour into the slow cooker along with the beer . Cover and cook on High for 6 hours or Low for 8 hours . During the last hour before serving , dissolve the cornstarch in cold water and then stir into the broth . Simmer on the High setting for a few minutes to thicken . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 5 large Yukon Gold potatoes , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch cubes 1 large carrot , coarsely shredded 2 pounds cooked corned beef , cubed 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme leaves salt to taste (optional) 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste  | Melt butter with the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook the onion just until it begins to brown , about 8 minutes ; stir in the potatoes and carrot , and cook until tender , about 15 minutes , stirring occasionally . Stir in the cubed corned beef , parsley , thyme , salt , and pepper . Let the mixture cook until hash is crisp and browned , stirring often , 10 to 15 more minutes . 
4 cups bread flour , plus more for dusting 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon baking powder 6 tablespoons butter , softened 1 1/4 cups buttermilk 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 3/4 cup finely chopped onion 3/4 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper . In a large mixing bowl , whisk together bread flour , salt , and baking powder until thoroughly combined . Beat in the butter , buttermilk , and confectioners' sugar to make a dough ; gently mix in the onion and Cheddar cheese . Divide dough in half , and shape each half into a ball . Place the loaves onto the prepared baking sheet , and gently flatten to about 2 inches thick . Dust each loaf with flour . Bake on a preheated oven until browned , about 30 minutes . Cool on racks for a few minutes ; serve warm . 
1 (5 1/2 pound) corned beef brisket 2 large onions 15 small white (Irish) potatoes 10 carrots , cut into 1 inch pieces 2 heads cabbage , cored and cut into wedges  | Rinse the beef brisket under cold water , and place in a large pot . Add enough water to cover the roast by 6 inches . Peel the onions , and place them in the pot with the roast . Bring to a boil , and cook for about 30 minutes at a rolling boil . Reduce heat to medium-low so that the water is at a gentle boil , cover , and cook for 3 1/2 hours . Remove the lid from the brisket . Remove onions , and cut into wedges . Return them to the pot . Add carrots to the pot , then place the cabbage over the roast . Place the potatoes on top of the cabbage . Place the lid back on the pot , and cook for another 30 minutes , until potatoes are tender . The potatoes should be immersed in the water by now , but if not , keep the lid on so they can steam . Remove the vegetables from the pot , and place in a separate serving bowl . Keep the corned beef in the pot until ready to slice and serve because it dries out quickly . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 large onion , sliced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 parsnip , peeled and cut into large chunks (optional) 4 cups water , or as needed 3 large potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary (optional) 1 cup coarsely chopped leeks chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)  | Heat oil over medium heat in a large stockpot or Dutch oven . Add lamb pieces and cook , stirring gently , until evenly browned . Season with salt and pepper . Add the onion , carrots , and parsnips and cook gently alongside the meat for a few minutes . Stir in the water . Cover and bring to a boil before turning the heat down to low . Simmer for 1 hour or longer , depending on the cut of meat you used and if it is tender yet . Stir in potatoes , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , before adding leeks and rosemary . Continue to simmer uncovered , until potatoes are tender but still whole . Serve piping hot in bowls garnished with fresh parsley . 
18 small red new potatoes 6 cups chicken broth 3 leeks , chopped 3 tablespoons butter 2 cups milk salt and pepper to taste  | Place potatoes into a large saucepan with water to cover . Bring to a boil and cook until tender . Meanwhile , saute leeks in butter until translucent . When potatoes are done , skin them while they are still hot and cut them into bite sized pieces . Place potatoes into a stock pot with chicken broth and leeks . season with salt and pepper . Cook over medium heat until simmering , then remove from heat and stir in milk . Serve immediately . 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup butter , cut into pieces 1 cup raisins 1/2 cup currants 2 teaspoons caraway seed (optional) 3/4 cup milk 3 tablespoons apple cider vinegar  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Grease 2 baking sheets . Stir together the flour , baking soda , baking powder , salt , and sugar in a large bowl until evenly blended . Cut in the butter using a pastry blender or your hands until the mixture resembles coarse cornmeal . Stir in the raisins , currants , and caraway seeds , then make a well in the center and pour in the milk and vinegar . Stir with a spoon until the dry ingredients are moistened . Turn the dough out onto a well floured work surface , and knead gently 8 to 10 times . Divide the dough into two balls , and place onto the prepared baking sheets . Bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes , then reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) , and bake until the top of the bread is golden brown , about 15 minutes more . 
1 cup Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 cup butter 3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 3/4 teaspoon salt 2 large eggs 2/3 cup sour cream 2/3 cup heavy whipping cream 8 ounces bittersweet chocolate , chopped 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon Irish whiskey , or more to taste 1/2 cup butter , softened 3 cups confectioners' sugar , or more as needed 3 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) , or more to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 24 muffin cups with paper liners . Bring Irish stout beer and 1 cup butter to a boil in a saucepan and set aside until butter has melted , stirring occasionally . Mix in cocoa powder until smooth . Whisk together flour , sugar , baking soda , and salt in a bowl until thoroughly combined . Beat eggs with sour cream in a large bowl with an electric mixer on low until well combined . Slowly beat in the beer mixture , then the flour mixture ; beat until the batter is smooth . Divide batter between the prepared cupcake cups , filling each cup about 2/3 full . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean , about 17 minutes . Cool the cupcakes completely . Cut cores out of the center of each cupcake with a sharp paring knife . Discard cores . Bring cream to a simmer in a saucepan over low heat ; stir in bittersweet chocolate until melted . Mix in 2 tablespoons butter and Irish whiskey until butter is melted ; let mixture cool to room temperature . Filling will thicken as it cools . Spoon the filling into the cored cupcakes . For frosting , whip 1/2 cup butter in a bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy , 2 to 3 minutes . Set mixer to low speed and slowly beat in confectioners' sugar , 1 cup at a time , until frosting is smooth and spreadable . Beat in the Irish cream liqueur ; adjust thickness of frosting with more confectioners' sugar if needed . Spread frosting on filled cupcakes . 
1 (4 pound) corned beef brisket with spice packet 3 quarts water 1 onion , quartered 3 carrots , cut into large chunks 3 stalks celery , cut into 2-inch pieces 1 teaspoon salt 2 pounds red potatoes , halved 1 small head cabbage , cut into eighths  | Combine corned beef and spice packet contents , water , onion , carrots , celery , and salt together in a large pot or Dutch oven ; bring to a simmer , skimming off any foam that rises to the surface . Cover the pot , reduce heat to low , and simmer until meat is almost fork-tender , about 3 hours . Add potatoes and simmer , uncovered , until potatoes are almost tender , about 30 minutes more . Place cabbage pieces on top of and around meat , cover the pot , and simmer until cabbage is tender , 20 to 30 minutes more . Remove meat to a cutting board and let rest 10 to 15 minutes . Cut across the grain and serve in a bowl ; ladle vegetables and broth over the top . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 3/4 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup dried currants 1/4 cup buttermilk 1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon caraway seed  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine dry ingredients in a mixing bowl . With a pastry blender , cut in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal . Stir in currants . Mix in beaten egg . Pour in milk and mix with a fork to make a soft dough (may need a little more milk) . On a floured surface , shape dough into a ball and knead lightly 5 or 6 times . Roll out dough to 1/4 inch thick and cut into squares and triangles with a knife (approximately 2 inches in diameter) . Bake for 12 to 14 minutes or until slightly browned . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 pounds boneless lamb shoulder , cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 large onion , sliced 2 carrots , peeled and cut into large chunks 1 parsnip , peeled and cut into large chunks (optional) 4 cups water , or as needed 3 large potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary (optional) 1 cup coarsely chopped leeks chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)  | Heat oil over medium heat in a large stockpot or Dutch oven . Add lamb pieces and cook , stirring gently , until evenly browned . Season with salt and pepper . Add the onion , carrots , and parsnips and cook gently alongside the meat for a few minutes . Stir in the water . Cover and bring to a boil before turning the heat down to low . Simmer for 1 hour or longer , depending on the cut of meat you used and if it is tender yet . Stir in potatoes , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes , before adding leeks and rosemary . Continue to simmer uncovered , until potatoes are tender but still whole . Serve piping hot in bowls garnished with fresh parsley . 
4 cups apple juice 1/2 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 2 (3 pound) corned beef briskets with spice packets 20 small red potatoes , scrubbed 4 carrots , cut into chunks 2 onions , cut into 8 wedges 1 head cabbage , cored and cut into large chunks  | Pour the apple juice into a large slow cooker , and mix in the brown sugar and mustard , stirring until the brown sugar has dissolved . Mix in the contents of the spice packets , and lay the briskets into the apple juice mixture . Top with red potatoes , carrots , onions , and cabbage chunks . Push all ingredients into the liquid . Cover and cook on High until corned beef is very tender , 4 to 5 hours ; or cook on Low for 8 to 10 hours . Slice meat thinly across the grain , and serve with vegetables . 
1 cup Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 cup butter , cut into pieces 3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2 eggs 2/3 cup sour cream 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda 3/4 teaspoon salt 3 cups confectioners' sugar , or as needed 1/2 cup butter at room temperature 3 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) , or as needed 8 ounces bittersweet chocolate , coarsely chopped 2/3 cup heavy cream 2 tablespoons butter at room temperature  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 2 9-inch cake pans with parchment paper , and spray with cooking spray . Pour the beer into a saucepan , add the butter , and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat . Remove the pan from the heat , and whisk in the cocoa powder until the mixture is smooth . Allow the mixture to cool . In a bowl , beat the eggs and sour cream together until smooth with an electric mixer , and stir in the stout mixture to make a smooth , thick liquid . In a large bowl , mix together the flour , sugar , baking soda , and salt . Pour the stout mixture into the flour mixture , and gently combine with a spatula . Pour the batter into the prepared pans . Bake in the preheated oven until the cakes are set and a toothpick inserted into the center of a cake comes out clean , about 30 minutes . Remove and let cool in pans for 5 minutes before inverting the cakes onto wire racks to finish cooling . Mix together the confectioners' sugar , butter , and Irish cream liqueur until the mixture forms a smooth and spreadable frosting (add more sugar or liqueur as needed to create the desired consistency) . Spread half the frosting on top of each cake . Place the chopped chocolate into a heatproof bowl . Bring cream to almost boiling in a small saucepan , and pour over the chocolate . Stir in the butter , and stir the mixture until the chocolate melts and the mixture is very smooth . Allow to cool until the mixture is pourable but not thin or overly runny , 10 to 15 minutes . Stack a cake gently on top of the other , frosting sides uppermost , and carefully drizzle the chocolate mixture over the cake , allowing decorative drips to run down the sides . 
1 cup white sugar 1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup shortening 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon ground cloves 1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Cream sugar , egg , salt and shortening together . Add flour , baking soda and spices . Mix well . Roll teaspoonfuls of dough into balls and roll the balls in sugar . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 5 to 6 minutes . 
4 links pork sausage 2 pounds potatoes , peeled and cubed 1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons milk (optional) 1 teaspoon dry mustard powder salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon butter 2 large onions , chopped 6 cups beef broth 2 cups red wine  | Preheat oven to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) . Cook the sausage links in a skillet over medium-low heat until browned on all sides , about 5 minutes per side ; transfer to an oven-safe dish and move to the preheated oven to keep warm . Place potatoes into a saucepan over medium heat , cover with water , and boil gently until potatoes are tender , 10 to 15 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Mix in 1/4 cup of butter , milk , dry mustard , salt , and black pepper ; mash until fluffy and smooth . Set aside . Melt 1 tablespoon butter in a skillet over medium-high heat ; cook the onions until translucent and just starting to brown , about 8 minutes . Pour in the beef broth and red wine ; boil the mixture down to about half its volume , about 10 minutes . Season with salt and black pepper . To serve , place a sausage onto a serving plate with about 1/2 cup of mashed potatoes . Pour the onion gravy over the sausage and potatoes . 
6 slices bacon , diced 1/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground allspice 2 1/2 pounds cubed beef stew meat 4 carrots , peeled and cut diagonally into 1-inch pieces 4 large onions , cut into eighths 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1/4 cup minced fresh parsley 1 teaspoon dried rosemary , crushed 1 teaspoon dried marjoram 1 bay leaf 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer  | Place the bacon in a large nonstick skillet , and cook over medium heat until crisp and brown . Remove the bacon pieces and set aside , leaving the drippings in the skillet . Place the flour , salt , black pepper , and allspice in a large plastic zipper bag , and shake a few times to combine . Place the beef stew meat into the bag , and shake to coat the meat with flour mixture . Place the meat pieces in the skillet with the bacon drippings , and cook the meat until brown on all sides . Remove the browned meat to a slow cooker , and add the carrots , onions , garlic , parsley , rosemary , marjoram , and bay leaf to the cooker . Pour the beer into the skillet , and bring to a boil over medium-low heat , scraping all the browned bits of flavor from the bottom of the skillet . Pour the beer into the slow cooker , over the meat and vegetables . Cover , and cook on Medium setting until the meat is very tender , 4 to 5 hours . Before serving , remove the bay leaf , and sprinkle the stew with the reserved bacon pieces . 
1 1/2 cups grated raw potatoes 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup leftover mashed potatoes 1 egg 1 tablespoon skim milk salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup olive oil  | Toss the grated potatoes with flour in a large bowl . Stir in mashed potatoes until combined . In a separate bowl , whisk together the egg and skim milk ; mix into the potatoes . Season to taste with salt and pepper . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Drop in the potato mixture , forming patties about 2 inches in diameter . Fry on both sides until golden brown , 3 to 4 minutes per side . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Serve warm . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk  | Preheat heavy based flat griddle or skillet on medium to low heat . Place flour and salt in a bowl and sift in baking soda . Make a well in the center , and pour in the buttermilk . Work quickly to mix into dough and knead very lightly on a well floured surface . Form into a flattened circle , about 1/2 inch thick and cut into quarters with a floured knife . Sprinkle a little flour over the base of the hot pan and cook the farls for 6 to 8 minutes on each side or until golden brown . 
3 potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 pinch salt 6 tablespoons butter , cut into small chunks 1/2 cup sour cream 1 egg 1 tablespoon milk , or as needed 1 teaspoon butter , or as needed 3 cups shredded cabbage 2 leeks , chopped 1 small onion , chopped 2 cubes chicken bouillon 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Place the potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Season the potatoes with salt , and mash with 6 tablespoons of butter , sour cream , egg , and milk . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 2-quart casserole . Heat 1 teaspoon butter in a skillet over medium heat , and cook and stir the cabbage , leeks , and onion until the cabbage is tender and the onion is translucent , about 10 minutes . Crush 2 bouillon cubes into the cabbage mixture , and stir to blend and dissolve the cubes . Stir the cabbage mixture into the potato mixture until thoroughly mixed , and spoon into the prepared casserole . Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes ; top with Cheddar cheese , and return to oven until the cheese melts , about 10 minutes . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup raisins 1 egg , beaten 1 cup buttermilk 2 tablespoons margarine , melted  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a cast iron skillet . In a medium bowl , mix together the flour , baking soda and sugar . Toss the raisins with the flour mixture until coated . Make a well in the center and add the egg , buttermilk , and melted margarine . Stir until all of the dry ingredients are absorbed . Turn the dough out onto a floured surface and knead for a few quick turns just to even out the dough . Handle the dough as little as possible . Pat into a flat circle , and place into the prepared pan . Bake the bread for 40 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the edges are golden . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 1 1/4 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup corn oil 1 cup raisins  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a baking sheet , or line with parchment paper . In a large bowl , stir together the flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , and salt . In another bowl , whisk together eggs , buttermilk , and corn oil . Make a well in the center of the flour mixture , and pour in the buttermilk mixture . Add the raisins , and stir a few times , just until the ingredients come together into a soft dough . Turn the dough out onto a floured surface , and with floured hands shape dough into a ball . Place the dough on the prepared baking sheet , and cut a large cross in the top with a sharp knife . Place the bread on a middle rack of the preheated oven , and bake until golden brown , 30 to 40 minutes . 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 3/4 cup cake flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 cup unsalted butter 3 tablespoons shortening 1/4 cup sour cream 1/8 teaspoon lemon juice 5 large Granny Smith apples - peeled , cored and sliced 1/2 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1/2 tablespoon ground nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon lemon juice 1 egg , beaten  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9 inch pie pan . To Make Crust : In a large bowl , combine flours , salt and sugar . Cut in butter and shortening until coarse crumbs are formed . Mix in sour cream and lemon juice . Keep mixing until dough forms a ball ; dough may be slightly lumpy , this is fine . Wrap dough ball in plastic wrap and allow to chill for 1 hour . Once chilled , take dough out of refrigerator and cut it in half ; keep one half covered and in the refrigerator . Roll dough to 1/8 of an inch . To lift pie shell , roll dough around rolling pin and then unroll into pie pan . Trim overhanging edges of pie crust . To Make Filling : Place apples into pie shell . In a small bowl , combine sugar , flour and nutmeg ; mix thoroughly . Sprinkle mixture over apples . Squirt lemon juice over apples . Place pie in refrigerator while top crust is rolled out . Remove pie from refrigerator . Brush outer edge of bottom crust with beaten egg . Place second crust on top of pie ; crimp pie shell edges together . Brush entire top crust with egg and cut 4 steam slots into it . Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 45 minutes , or until golden brown . Allow pie to completely cool before serving . Serve warm with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream . 
6 slices bacon , diced 1/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground allspice 2 1/2 pounds cubed beef stew meat 4 carrots , peeled and cut diagonally into 1-inch pieces 4 large onions , cut into eighths 2 cloves garlic , chopped 1/4 cup minced fresh parsley 1 teaspoon dried rosemary , crushed 1 teaspoon dried marjoram 1 bay leaf 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer  | Place the bacon in a large nonstick skillet , and cook over medium heat until crisp and brown . Remove the bacon pieces and set aside , leaving the drippings in the skillet . Place the flour , salt , black pepper , and allspice in a large plastic zipper bag , and shake a few times to combine . Place the beef stew meat into the bag , and shake to coat the meat with flour mixture . Place the meat pieces in the skillet with the bacon drippings , and cook the meat until brown on all sides . Remove the browned meat to a slow cooker , and add the carrots , onions , garlic , parsley , rosemary , marjoram , and bay leaf to the cooker . Pour the beer into the skillet , and bring to a boil over medium-low heat , scraping all the browned bits of flavor from the bottom of the skillet . Pour the beer into the slow cooker , over the meat and vegetables . Cover , and cook on Medium setting until the meat is very tender , 4 to 5 hours . Before serving , remove the bay leaf , and sprinkle the stew with the reserved bacon pieces . 
1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup packed light brown sugar 1/2 cup Irish whiskey 4 large bananas , peeled and halved lengthwise  | Melt the butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the brown sugar and whiskey . Bring to a boil and cook until sugar has dissolved . Add bananas to the skillet and simmer gently until bananas are tender and glazed with the syrup . Serve immediately with vanilla ice cream . 
3 pounds lamb shoulder chops salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 3 cups chicken stock 1/2 teaspoon dried rosemary 2 carrots , chopped 2 stalks celery , chopped water as needed 1 1/2 pounds baby Dutch yellow potatoes 1/4 cup chopped green onions  | Season lamb shoulder chops with salt and black pepper . Heat oil in a large heavy skillet over high heat . Working in batches , cook lamb shoulder chops until browned on both sides , 3 to 5 minutes per side . Transfer chops to a stock pot . Cook and stir onion with a pinch of salt in the same skillet over medium heat until slightly softened and edges are browning , about 5 minutes . Stir butter into onion until melted ; add flour and stir until onions are coated , about 1 minute . Pour stock into onion mixture ; bring to a boil , add rosemary , and stir until mixture thickens , 5 to 10 minutes . Stir carrots and celery into pot with lamb shoulder chops and pour chicken stock mixture over the top . Add water as needed to cover meat completely . Bring mixture to a simmer , reduce heat to low , cover the pot with a lid , and cook until meat is almost falling off the bone , about 1 1/2 hours . Transfer meat to a plate . Stir potatoes into stew and return meat to stew , placing on top of vegetables . Simmer , covered , until potatoes are tender and meat is falling off the bone , about 30 minutes . Transfer meat to a plate using a slotted spoon . Bring stew to a boil and cook , skimming off fat , until stew is reduced and thick , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove meat from bones ; discard bones and any pieces of fat . Stir meat back into stew . Stir green onions into stew and season with salt and pepper to taste . 
3 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1 pound cubed beef stew meat 2 slices bacon , chopped 1 white onion , chopped 1 carrot , sliced 1/3 pound crimini mushrooms , sliced 1 clove garlic , crushed 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 cup Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 1/4 cups beef stock 1/2 teaspoon ground thyme 2 bay leaves 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch , or as needed 1 teaspoon water 1 sheet frozen puff pastry , thawed 1 egg , beaten  | Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large pot over medium heat , and brown the beef stew meat on all sides , about 10 minutes ; set aside . Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil , and cook the bacon just until it begins to brown ; stir in the onion , carrot , mushrooms , garlic , and sugar . Cook the vegetables until soft and browned , 10 to 15 more minutes . Stir in the flour until smoothly incorporated , and gradually mix in the Irish stout beer and beef stock . Mix in the thyme , bay leaves , and the reserved cooked beef . Cover , and bring the mixture to a boil ; reduce heat to a simmer until the meat is tender , about 1 hour and 15 minutes ; stir occasionally . Remove the cover , turn the heat up to medium , and let the stew boil until slightly thickened , about 15 more minutes . Mix cornstarch with water , and stir into the stew ; let simmer for 30 more minutes to blend flavors . Remove from heat ; discard bay leaves . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spread the filling into a 9-inch pie dish ; trim the puff pastry into a 10-inch circle , and place on top of the filling . Pinch and crimp the edges of the pastry with a fork , sealing it to the dish ; cut 2 steam vents into the pastry with a sharp knife . Brush the top of the pie with beaten egg . Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is browned , 30 to 40 minutes . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk  | Preheat heavy based flat griddle or skillet on medium to low heat . Place flour and salt in a bowl and sift in baking soda . Make a well in the center , and pour in the buttermilk . Work quickly to mix into dough and knead very lightly on a well floured surface . Form into a flattened circle , about 1/2 inch thick and cut into quarters with a floured knife . Sprinkle a little flour over the base of the hot pan and cook the farls for 6 to 8 minutes on each side or until golden brown . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 tablespoons butter 1 onion , chopped 4 (4 ounce) beef top sirloin steaks 1 clove garlic , cut in half lengthwise 1/4 cup Irish whiskey (such as Jameson®) salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley  | Heat vegetable oil and butter in a heavy skillet over medium heat until butter has melted . Cook and stir onions in butter and oil until lightly golden brown , about 10 minutes . Push onions aside with a spatula . Rub steaks with cut sides of garlic clove . Place steaks in the skillet , leaving the onions to the side , and cook over medium-high heat until meat is browned but still lightly pink inside , 2 to 4 minutes per side . Remove the skillet from heat . Slowly pour Irish whiskey into the hot skillet (be careful , whiskey fumes are flammable) . Mix browned onions into whiskey and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat . Sprinkle steaks with salt , black pepper , and parsley ; turn steaks over in whiskey pan sauce to coat both sides , and serve drizzled with sauce . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup buttermilk 1/2 cup dried currants  | Combine flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , and salt . Cut butter into flour mixture with pastry cutter . Add buttermilk until dough is soft . Stir in currants . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface . Knead for 5 minutes , or until smooth . Form dough into a 7 inch round . Place on a lightly oiled cake pan or cookie sheet . Cut 1/2 inch deep cross side to side . Score with cross 1/2 inch deep on the top . Bake in a preheated 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) oven for 40 minutes . 
1 pound cubed lamb meat 1 large onion , halved and sliced 1 pound baking potatoes , peeled and sliced 1 carrot , peeled and sliced 1 large stalk celery , sliced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley salt and pepper to taste 2 cups beef stock 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley , for garnish  | Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Layer the lamb meat , onion , potatoes , carrot and celery in an oven proof pot or casserole dish . Season each layer with parsley , salt and pepper as you go . Pour in the beef stock and cover tightly . Bake for 1 1/2 to 2 hours in the preheated oven , until vegetables and meat are very tender . Divide into bowls and garnish with additional parsley . 
1 (12 ounce) package bacon 1/4 cup bacon drippings 1 small head cabbage , cored and finely chopped ground black pepper to taste  | Cook bacon in a deep skillet over medium heat until crisp , 5 to 7 minutes . Remove bacon from skillet and drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Reserve 1/4 cup drippings in skillet . Cook and stir cabbage in hot bacon drippings over medium heat until cabbage wilts , 5 to 7 minutes . Crumble bacon over cabbage . Stir and simmer until bacon is warmed , 2 to 3 minutes . Season with black pepper . 
1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 cup shredded coconut 1 1/2 tablespoons cream 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon  | Sprinkle the sugar on the coconut . Add the cream and mix gently . Take approximately 1/2 tablespoon of dough and roll into balls . Place cinnamon in a plastic bag and shake cookies a few at a time until coated . 
1 cup bread flour 2 3/4 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda 2 teaspoons white sugar 1/4 cup margarine 2 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 tablespoon buttermilk 1 teaspoon white sugar  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Prepare a shallow baking pan with cooking spray . Sift together the bread flour , whole wheat flour , salt , baking soda , and 2 teaspoons sugar in a bowl . Cut the margarine into the flour mixture until pieces are nearly indistinguishable . Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour in the oil and buttermilk . Stir with a spatula until dry mixture is completely moistened . Move the dough to a lightly-floured surface . Lightly knead the dough for no more than 1 minute . Place the dough into the prepared pan ; pat down and around to form a round loaf . Cut a cross into the top of the loaf with your finger . Brush the top with 1 tablespoon buttermilk ; sprinkle 1 teaspoon sugar over the top of the loaf . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) ; rotate pan and bake another 30 minutes . Allow loaf to cool on a wire rack before slicing . 
1/4 cup butter 1 large yellow onion , chopped 2 leeks , white and pale-green parts only , rinsed and coarsely chopped 4 cloves garlic , smashed 1 stalk celery , cut into chunks 4 cups vegetable stock 5 potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 cup vegetable stock 1 1/4 cups sliced baby carrots 3 tablespoons chopped green onion 3/4 cup heavy cream salt and ground black pepper to taste 6 tablespoons shredded Cheddar cheese (optional)  | Melt the butter in a large stockpot over medium heat ; cook and stir the onion , leeks , garlic , and celery in the melted butter until tender , about 10 minutes . Pour 4 cups vegetable stock into the stockpot ; add the potatoes . Bring the mixture to a boil , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook the mixture at a simmer 20 minutes . Divide the stock mixture into 3 batches with equal amounts of liquid and vegetables ; set aside to cool for 30 minutes . Pour 1 batch of the stock mixture into a blender , filling the pitcher no more than halfway . Hold the blender lid firmly in place and carefully start the blender ; use a few quick pulses to get the mixture moving before leaving it on to puree . Repeat process with second batch . Return the pureed batches to the stockpot . Divide third batch into two equal batches . Puree only one of the two batches before returning both to the stockpot . Bring 1 cup vegetable stock to a simmer in a small pot over medium-low heat . Cook the carrots in the simmering stock until soft , 5 to 7 minutes ; add to the puree in the stockpot . Stir the green onion and heavy cream through the puree ; continue cooking another 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper ; top with Cheddar cheese to serve . 
1 1/2 pounds potatoes , peeled and quartered 1 1/2 pounds cooked corned beef , finely chopped 1 bunch green onions , chopped salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 tablespoon butter 1/4 cup roasted tomato salsa  | Place potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until almost tender but still firm , about 15 minutes . Drain and finely chop . Cook beef in a large cast-iron or non-stick skillet over medium heat until fat begins to render . Stir green onions , salt , and pepper into beef . Add garlic and butter ; cook and stir until butter is melted and garlic is fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Stir potatoes , salsa , and a pinch of salt into beef mixture . Pat mixture down in the skillet with a spatula and divide hash into 4 sections . Cook , without stirring , until a crust forms on the bottom , about 5 minutes . Flip sections and cook until a crust forms on the bottom again , about 5 minutes more . Repeat cooking and flipping process , flipping every 5 minutes , until hash stays together and has a golden crust , 10 to 15 minutes . 
1 cup boiling water 1 tea bag 1 (1.5 fluid ounce) jigger Irish whiskey 1 tablespoon milk 1 teaspoon white sugar  | Pour boiling water into a mug , and place the tea bag in to steep for about 1 minute . Remove and discard the tea bag . Pour in the whiskey , milk and sugar as desired . Stir , drink , give me good rating , then relax . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 cup white sugar 1/4 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup chilled butter , diced 2 egg yolks , beaten 1 1/4 pounds Golden Delicious apple - peeled , cored and cut into 1/4 inch slices 1/4 cup light brown sugar , packed 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C.) Sift four , 1/2 cup sugar and salt into a large bowl . Cut in butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs . Fold in egg yolks (mixture will be crumbly) . Remove 1/4 of mixture , and set aside . Press remainder onto bottom and sides an 8 inch tart shell or pie pan . In a large bowl , combine apples , brown sugar , 1 tablespoon flour , cinnamon and nutmeg . Place apples into crust , and sprinkle reserved crumb mixture evenly over top . Place pie on a baking sheet , and bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes . Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and continue baking 20 minutes , or until top is golden brown and filling is bubbling . 
1 cup bread flour 2 3/4 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda 2 teaspoons white sugar 1/4 cup margarine 2 cups buttermilk 1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 tablespoon buttermilk 1 teaspoon white sugar  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Prepare a shallow baking pan with cooking spray . Sift together the bread flour , whole wheat flour , salt , baking soda , and 2 teaspoons sugar in a bowl . Cut the margarine into the flour mixture until pieces are nearly indistinguishable . Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour in the oil and buttermilk . Stir with a spatula until dry mixture is completely moistened . Move the dough to a lightly-floured surface . Lightly knead the dough for no more than 1 minute . Place the dough into the prepared pan ; pat down and around to form a round loaf . Cut a cross into the top of the loaf with your finger . Brush the top with 1 tablespoon buttermilk ; sprinkle 1 teaspoon sugar over the top of the loaf . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes . Reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) ; rotate pan and bake another 30 minutes . Allow loaf to cool on a wire rack before slicing . 
4 medium potatoes , peeled and halved 1 pinch salt 1/4 cup all-purpose flour , plus extra for dusting 1 tablespoon melted butter  | In a pot , cover potatoes with water and bring to a boil over high heat . Simmer on medium-high heat until the center of the potatoes are tender when pricked with a fork , about 20 minutes . Turn off heat . Drain , return potatoes to pot and allow to completely dry out over remaining heat . Mash with a potato masher until smooth . Place warm mashed potato in medium bowl . Stir in flour , salt and melted butter . Mix lightly until dough forms . On a well floured surface , knead the dough lightly . The dough will be sticky . Use a floured rolling pin to flatten into a 9 inch circle about 1/4 inch thick . Cut into quarters using a floured knife . Sprinkle a little flour into the base of the skillet and cook the farls for 3 minutes on each side or until evenly browned . Season with a little salt and serve straight away . 
2 pounds cubed stew meat 6 carrots , chopped 2 onions , chopped 2 cups cubed potatoes 1 tablespoon brown sugar 3 tablespoons tapioca flour 1 cup tomato-vegetable juice cocktail  | Preheat oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) . In a roasting pan , combine the meat , carrots , onions and potatoes . In a separate bowl , combine the sugar , tapioca flour and juice cocktail and mix well . Pour this mixture over the meat and vegetables and cover tightly with foil . Bake in the preheated oven for 5 hours . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk  | Heat a heavy skillet , griddle , or cast-iron frying pan over medium-low heat . Stir the flour and salt together in a bowl , and sift in the baking soda . Make a well in the center of the flour mixture , and pour in the buttermilk . Stir the mixture quickly together into a dough , and turn out onto a floured work surface . Knead the dough a few times , just until it comes together . Gently form the dough into a flattened , round cake about 1/2 inch thick , and cut the round into quarters with a floured knife . Sprinkle a little bit of flour into the bottom of the hot skillet , and cook the wedges 6 to 8 minutes per side , until golden brown . 
1/4 cup mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 pinch salt 1 (16 ounce) package confectioners' sugar 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar for dusting , or as needed 1/3 cup peanut butter , or as needed  | Combine mashed potatoes , milk , vanilla extract , and salt in a bowl . Stir confectioners' sugar into potato mixture until a dough consistency is reached . Refrigerate dough until chilled , about 1 hour . Sprinkle confectioners' sugar on a cutting board or waxed paper . Roll dough into a large rectangular shape on prepared surface . Spread enough peanut butter on top layer of dough to cover . Roll dough into a jelly roll shape ; refrigerate roll for 1 hour . Slice dough into pinwheels to serve . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking soda 4 cups whole wheat flour 2 teaspoons white sugar 2 cups buttermilk 1 cup milk 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a large bowl , sift together all-purpose flour , salt and baking soda . Add whole wheat flour and sugar ; stir to combine . In a separate bowl , mix together buttermilk , milk and oil . Add milk mixture to flour mixture ; mix just until combined . Divide dough in half and form into two round , flat loaves . Place loaves on a lightly greased baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes . Reduce heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) and bake for an additional 25 to 30 minutes , until golden brown . 
1/4 tablespoon salted butter 6 leeks , trimmed and chopped 3 cups chicken stock 4 large potatoes , peeled and cubed 1/2 cup heavy cream 1 teaspoon sea salt , or to taste ground black pepper to taste  | Melt butter in a large pot over medium heat . Cook and stir leeks in the melted butter until softened , about 15 minutes . Stir in chicken stock and potatoes and bring to a boil . Reduce heat and simmer until potatoes are tender , about 20 minutes . Pour about half of the soup into a blender , filling the pitcher no more than halfway full . Hold down the lid of the blender with a folded kitchen towel , and carefully start the blender , using a few quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree . Pour the pureed soup back into the pot . Stir in heavy cream and season with sea salt and black pepper . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup white sugar 1 1/2 cups buttermilk 1/2 cup raisins 2 eggs 1 tablespoon caraway seed  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine flour , baking powder , salt , and sugar . Beat eggs with buttermilk . Add the eggs and buttermilk into the flour mixture ; stir in raisins . Pour dough onto lightly floured board . Shape into a round loaf , adding flour if necessary . Place in a lightly greased springform pan . Sprinkle top with caraway seeds if desired . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 1 hour or until the bottom of the loaf sounds hollow when tapped . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon fennel seed 2 eggs , beaten 1 3/4 cups buttermilk 2 teaspoons melted butter 3 tablespoons butter , chilled  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 10 inch round cake pan . In a large bowl , stir together the flour , baking powder , baking soda , salt , sugar , and fennel seed . In another bowl , stir together the eggs , buttermilk , and melted butter . Stir the wet ingredients into the flour mixture , until just blended using a large spoon . Spoon the batter into the prepared pan . Dot with the 3 tablespoons of chilled butter . Bake for about 1 hour in the preheated oven , or until puffed and golden . Cut into wedges and serve warm . 
1 pound kosher salt 2 gallons water , divided 8 pounds beef brisket 6 bay leaves 8 black peppercorns 1 onion , chopped 1 medium head cabbage , quartered 1 pound carrots , sliced 1 turnip , chopped 1 teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro 8 potatoes - peeled and cubed  | In a large stainless steel or cast iron pot , combine the salt , water and brisket . Cover and let sit for 7 days in the refrigerator . (Note : brisket must be completely submerged , so double the salt and water if necessary.) After 7 days , drain the brine and add 1 gallon fresh water , bay leaves and peppercorns . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low/medium low , and simmer for 3 to 3 1/2 hours . During the last 45 minutes of cooking , add the onion , cabbage , carrots , turnip , cilantro , and potatoes . Continue simmering until all vegetables are tender . 
2 pounds potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 head cabbage , chopped 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1/4 cup butter , softened 1/2 cup half-and-half cream salt and black pepper to taste  | Place the potatoes , cabbage , and green onions into a large sauce pan , fill with water , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer until the potatoes are tender , about 20 minutes . Drain the vegetables and place into a large bowl . Mash the potatoes and vegetables with the butter using a fork until the mixture is chunky , pouring in half-and-half gradually as you mash . Season with salt and pepper , and serve . 
1 pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 1 (4 pound) whole chicken , deboned and cut into bite size pieces 4 slices cooked ham 4 leeks , chopped 1 onion , chopped salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch ground mace 1 1/4 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon milk 1/2 cup heavy cream  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish , layer the chicken , ham , leeks and onion a couple of times each until the dish is full . Season each layer with a little salt , pepper and mace . Pour the chicken stock over the layers , and dampen the edges of the dish . Roll the pie pastry out large enough to cover the top of the dish , and place over the top . Crimp the sides down with a fork , and trim the excess from the edges . Cut a round hole in the center of the pastry . Roll dough scraps out and cut into strips . Use the strips to form a design , and place lightly over the hole . Brush the entire top with milk . Bake for 35 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until chicken is cooked through . If the top crust is getting too brown , cover it with parchment or aluminum foil . While the pie is baking , heat the cream over low heat . When the pie is cooked , remove from the oven , and carefully remove the design from the hole . Pour the cream into the hole , and replace the design . Let stand for a few minutes before serving . 
5 large potatoes - peeled and cubed 1/2 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 1 pound lean ground beef 1 medium onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 ounce margarine 1 ounce all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons ketchup 2 cups beef consomme 2 tablespoons browning and seasoning sauce 8 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese  | Place the potatoes in a pot with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil and cook until tender . Drain and mash with desired amounts of milk and butter . Set aside . While the potatoes are cooking , crumble the ground beef into a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until meat is no longer pink . Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Melt the margarine in a small pan . Stir in the flour . Cook and stir over medium heat until dark brown , about 10 minutes . Let cool off the heat then gradually stir in the consomme , ketchup and browning sauce until smooth . Set over medium heat and simmer until thick . Stir the sauce into the ground beef and transfer to a casserole dish . Top with mashed potato , then sprinkle the cheese over the potato . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , until potatoes are toasted and cheese is melted . 
1/4 cup butter 1 cup white sugar 2 eggs , beaten 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 1 pinch salt 1 cup sour cream 1 cup raisins  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan . I use a glass one . In a medium bowl , cream together the butter and sugar until smooth . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the sour cream . Sift together the flour , baking soda , cream of tartar and salt ; stir into the sour cream mixture until just blended . Fold in raisins . Transfer the batter to the prepared loaf pan . Bake for 50 to 60 minutes in the preheated oven , or until a small knife inserted into the crown , comes out clean . 
3 carrots , chopped 3 large potatoes - peeled and cubed 1 parsnip , peeled and diced 1 turnip , peeled and diced 1 leek , sliced 1/2 onion , chopped 1/4 cup dry potato flakes (optional) salt and pepper to taste 1 cup water , or as needed  | Place the carrots , potatoes , parsnip , turnip , leek and onion into a large saucepan . Fill with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil and cook until the vegetables are tender . Drain off water and puree vegetables in a blender or using a stick blender . Return the puree to the saucepan and stir in water to reach your desired thickness . Heat to a simmer and season with salt and pepper . Serve and enjoy . 
1 (1.5 fluid ounce) jigger Irish cream liqueur 1 (1.5 fluid ounce) jigger Irish whiskey 1 cup hot brewed coffee 1 tablespoon whipped cream 1 dash ground nutmeg  | In a coffee mug , combine Irish cream and Irish whiskey . Fill mug with coffee . Top with a dab of whipped cream and a dash of nutmeg . 
3 pounds smoked pork shoulder salt and pepper to taste 2 large onions , quartered 6 potatoes , peeled 8 ounces carrots , cut in half 1 large head cabbage , quartered 1 pound fresh green beans , trimmed  | Place the smoked pork into a large pot and fill with enough water to cover . Season with salt and pepper , cover and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low and simmer for about 30 minutes . Add the carrots , potato , cabbage and onions ; cover and continue to simmer . Use kitchen string to tie the green beans into a bundle . Add them to the pot , cover and continue to cook until the carrots and potatoes are tender , about 25 minutes . To serve , remove pork to a serving dish . Arrange vegetables around it . Allow the pork to rest about 10 minutes before slicing . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 tablespoons butter 2 cups whole wheat flour 1/4 cup quick-cooking oatmeal 1 1/2 cups nonfat plain yogurt 1 teaspoon milk , or more as needed (optional)  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Mix all-purpose flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a bowl . Cut butter into flour mixture with a pastry blender or 2 knives until the mixture forms fine crumbs . Stir whole-wheat flour and quick-cooking oatmeal into the butter mixture . Gently stir yogurt into the oatmeal mixture . If mixture is too dry to hold together , add 1 teaspoon milk at a time , just until dough holds together ; it should not be sticky . Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface ; knead gently about 5 times to form a ball . Place the dough in the center of the prepared baking sheet ; cut a large 'X' in the top of the loaf . Bake in preheated oven until well browned , about 40 minutes ; transfer to a rack to cool . Bread can be served warm or cold . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 lamb shanks 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , chopped 2 carrots , chopped 2 celery ribs , chopped 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 (12 fluid ounce) bottle stout (such as Guinness®) or porter 1 (14 ounce) can beef broth 3 sprigs fresh thyme 3 sprigs fresh parsley 1 bay leaf 1 sprig fresh rosemary salt and pepper to taste  | Heat oil in a Dutch oven or large , wide pot over medium-high heat until the oil begins to smoke . Brown the lamb shanks in the hot oil on all sides until well browned , about 10 minutes . Remove lamb shanks and set aside . Pour the excess grease from the Dutch oven , reduce heat to medium , and stir in the onions and garlic . Cook and stir until the onions have softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the carrots , celery , and tomato paste ; continue cooking 5 minutes more . Return the lamb shanks to the Dutch oven , and pour in the stout beer and beef broth . Bring to a simmer over high heat . While you're waiting for the beer to simmer , use kitchen twine to tie together the thyme sprigs , parsley sprigs , and bay leaf into a secure bundle ; add to the lamb shanks . Once the lamb shanks begin to simmer , reduce the heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the lamb is very tender and nearly falling off of the bone , 2 to 3 hours . Stir the lamb occasionally as it cooks , and add water if needed to keep the cooking liquid from becoming too thick . You want the cooking liquid to have reduced into a nice sauce by the time the lamb shanks are done . Stir in the rosemary sprig , and salt and pepper to taste during the last 10 minutes of cooking . Remove rosemary sprig and herb bundle before serving . 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon baking powder 1 2/3 cups white sugar 2/3 cup butter , softened 1 1/4 cups water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 eggs 2 cups chocolate chips (optional) 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour (optional) 1 cup butter , softened 1/4 cup Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 3 drops green food coloring (optional) 3 cups confectioners' sugar , or more as needed  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 24 muffin cups with paper liners . Whisk together 2 1/2 cups flour , cocoa powder , baking soda , salt , and baking powder in a large bowl until thoroughly mixed . Beat in white sugar , 2/3 cup butter , water , 1 teaspoon vanilla extract , and eggs to make a smooth batter . Place chocolate chips into a bowl and mix with 2 tablespoons flour until the chips are coated ; fold chocolate chips into the batter . Divide batter between the prepared muffin cups , filling each cup about 2/3 full . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean , about 20 minutes . Remove from oven and let cool completely . While cupcakes are cooling , beat 1 cup butter , Irish cream liqueur , 2 teaspoons vanilla extract , and green food coloring with an electric mixer in a large bowl until mixture is smooth , thick , and evenly colored . Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in confectioners' sugar , 1 cup at a time , until frosting is desired consistency . Beat in more confectioners' sugar to make a stiffer frosting . Spread frosting on cooled cupcakes . 
2 (19.8 ounce) packages fudge brownie mix (such as Duncan Hines®) 1 cup Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) 2/3 cup vegetable oil 2 eggs 1 cup unsalted butter , softened 5 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur (such as Baileys®) 4 cups confectioners' sugar  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Butter the bottom of a 10 1/2x15 1/2-inch jelly roll pan . Place fudge brownie mix into a large bowl ; beat in 1 cup of Irish cream liqueur , vegetable oil , and eggs until the mixture forms a smooth batter . Spread the batter into the prepared jelly roll pan . Bake in the preheated oven until the brownies are set and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , about 20 minutes . Remove pan from oven and allow to cool completely . Beat unsalted butter in a large bowl until smooth ; beat in 5 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur until mixture is creamy . Slowly beat in confectioners' sugar , 1 cup at a time , until frosting is desired stiffness ; spread frosting on brownies to serve . 
1 cup buttermilk , divided 1 1/2 cups golden raisins 1/2 cup butter , melted - divided 4 cups all-purpose flour 1/4 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9-inch deep-dish pie plate . Spoon 1 tablespoon of the buttermilk into a small bowl ; place remainder of 1 cup buttermilk into a separate bowl . Stir golden raisins into the larger amount of buttermilk and allow raisins to soak while you complete the remaining steps . Spoon 1 tablespoon of the melted butter into the small bowl with the tablespoon of buttermilk ; stir to combine and set aside . Set remaining melted butter aside . Whisk together flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a bowl . Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients , pour in reserved butter , and stir until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs . Mix the egg into the flour mixture until thoroughly combined . Mix the soaked raisins with buttermilk into dough and shape dough into a ball . Place the ball of dough into prepared pie dish and lightly pat dough down so top is slightly domed . Use a sharp knife to cut two crisscrossing lines through the center of the loaf about 1/4 inch deep . Thoroughly brush buttermilk and butter mixture over the loaf , getting the mixture into the crevices . Bake in the preheated oven until loaf is golden brown and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , 55 minutes to 1 hour . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 4 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 tablespoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup margarine , softened 1 cup buttermilk 1 egg 1/4 cup butter , melted 1/4 cup buttermilk  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a large baking sheet . In a large bowl , mix together flour , sugar , baking soda , baking powder , salt and margarine . Stir in 1 cup of buttermilk and egg . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead slightly . Form dough into a round and place on prepared baking sheet . In a small bowl , combine melted butter with 1/4 cup buttermilk ; brush loaf with this mixture . Use a sharp knife to cut an 'X' into the top of the loaf . Bake in preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center of the loaf comes out clean , 45 to 50 minutes . Check for doneness after 30 minutes . You may continue to brush the loaf with the butter mixture while it bakes . 
4 potatoes , cut into chunks 1/2 head cauliflower , separated into florets 2 cups chicken broth salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/2 onion , chopped 3 carrots , shredded 1 1/2 pounds ground turkey 1 1/2 cups frozen peas 2 tablespoons low-sodium Worcestershire sauce  | Place the potatoes and cauliflower into a pot , then pour in the chicken broth . Add water to nearly cover the vegetables ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , and simmer until the potatoes and cauliflower are tender , about 20 minutes . Drain the potatoes and cauliflower , but keep about 1/2 cup of the cooking liquid . Separate the cooked potatoes into a large bowl . Transfer the cauliflower into a blender or food processor along with about 1/4 cup of the cooking liquid , and pulse until the cauliflower is thoroughly pureed . Spoon the blended cauliflower into the bowl with the potatoes , and mash together until the cauliflower and potatoes form a smooth , white mixture . Season the mixture with salt and black pepper . For a softer topping , stir in a few more spoonfuls of the cooking liquid . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Spray a 9x12-inch baking dish with cooking spray . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook the onion and carrots until the onion is translucent , about 5 minutes ; stir in the ground turkey , and cook until the meat is no longer pink , breaking it up into small chunks as it cooks . Stir in peas and Worcestershire sauce , then cook until the meat has begun to brown , about 10 more minutes . If the filling mixture starts to look dried out , stir in a few spoonfuls of the cauliflower cooking liquid to keep it moist . Place the filling into the prepared baking dish , then smooth it out into an even layer . Top the filling with the mashed potato and cauliflower mixture , and spread with a fork , leaving little peaks and swirls in the topping . Bake the pie in the preheated oven until the filling is bubbling , about 25 minutes . Turn on the oven's broiler , and broil the pie about 6 inches from the heat source until the mashed topping has browned , about 10 more minutes . 
8 potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream 1/2 cup butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup chopped fresh chives 1 pinch paprika , or more to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place potatoes in a large pot of water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until tender , about 20 minutes . Drain . Combine hot potatoes , cream cheese , sour cream , butter , and salt together in a large bowl . Mash until creamy . Spoon potato mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish . Sprinkle with chives and paprika . Bake in preheated oven until bubbling , about 30 minutes . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 pounds beef stew meat , cubed 3 cups stout beer (such as Guinness®) 2 potatoes , peeled and sliced 2 potatoes , peeled and quartered salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Heat the olive oil in a large pot over medium heat . Stir in the onion , garlic , salt , and pepper . Cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in the beef , beer , sliced potatoes , and quartered potatoes . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the beef is tender , about 2 hours . Season to taste with salt and pepper before serving . 
2 1/2 cups chopped dried mixed fruit 1 1/2 cups hot brewed tea 2 1/2 cups flour 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 egg 1 1/2 cups sugar 1/4 cup lemon marmalade 1 teaspoon grated orange zest  | Soak the dried fruit in the hot tea for 2 hours , then drain and gently squeeze out excess tea . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9 inch Bundt pan . Stir together the flour cinnamon , nutmeg , and baking soda ; set aside . Beat the egg , sugar , marmalade , orange zest , and tea-soaked fruit until well combined . Gently fold in the flour until just combined , then pour into the prepared Bundt pan . Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour or until the top of the cake springs back when lightly pressed . Allow to cool in the pan for 2 hours before removing . Continue to cool to room temperature on a wire rack . Press the objects of choice into the cake through the bottom before serving . 
6 large russet (baking) potatoes 1 large green bell pepper , cut into 1/2-inch dice 1 large red bell pepper , cut into 1/2-inch dice 1 large onion , cut into 1/2-inch dice 1/4 cup vegetable oil  | Place the potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer 10 minutes . Drain , then set aside until cool . Once cool , cut into 1/2-inch dice . Combine the potatoes , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , and onion in a mixing bowl . Drizzle in the vegetable oil , and gently stir until evenly coated . Spoon the mixture into resealable freezer bags . Store the mixture in the freezer . To prepare , cook the frozen mixture in a nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until crispy and golden brown , stirring occasionally , about 20 minutes . 
3 2/3 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking soda 4 1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger 1/2 cup butter 2 tablespoons molasses 1 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . In a large bowl , sift together flour , baking soda , cream of tarter , salt , cinnamon , allspice , cloves , nutmeg and ginger . Cut in butter with a fork or pastry blender . Combine milk and molasses in a small bowl ; stir into flour mixture until moistened . Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead briefly . Roll dough out into a 1/2 inch thick round . Cut out circles with a medium biscuit cutter and place pieces on prepared baking sheet so that they are barely touching . Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes . Move to a wire rack to cool slightly before serving . For soft scones , cover with a dry cloth for 10 minutes . For crisp scones , do not cover . 
2/3 cup shortening 2 cups white sugar 2 eggs 3/4 cup milk 2 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/8 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 2 teaspoons ground cloves 2 teaspoons ground nutmeg 2 cups mashed cooked potatoes 1 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup raisins  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 10 inch Bundt pan . Sift together the flour , baking powder , salt , cinnamon , cloves and nutmeg . Set aside . In a large bowl , cream together the shortening and sugar until light and fluffy . Beat in the eggs one at a time . Add the flour mixture alternately with the potatoes and milk . Stir in nuts and raisins . Pour into a 10 inch Bundt pan . Bake in the preheated oven for 90 to 120 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean . 
1 potato , peeled and chopped 1 (32 ounce) package confectioners' sugar 1/4 cup creamy peanut butter , or as needed  | Place potato into a saucepan with enough water to cover and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low and cook potato until very tender , about 15 minutes . Drain and allow to steam dry for a minute or two . Transfer potato to a large bowl and mash with a fork until smooth . Gradually stir confectioners' sugar into mashed potato a little at a time until the mixture forms a stiff dough . The dough will be runny until all the powdered sugar is used . Place a large square of waxed paper onto a work surface . Roll or press dough into a 12-inch square rectangle on the waxed paper . Spread peanut butter over top of dough , covering it entirely . Pick up one edge of waxed paper and start rolling the dough to make a 12-inch-long log . Wrap log tightly with waxed paper . Refrigerate for 1 hour . Unwrap log and slice candy into cross-sectional pieces about 3/4-inch thick to serve . 
1 3/4 cups brewed black tea , cold 1 cup packed light brown sugar 1 1/4 cups golden raisins 1/4 cup chopped candied citron 1 1/4 cups self-rising flour 1 egg , beaten  | Put the tea , sugar , raisins and peel into a bowl , cover and leave to soak overnight . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour an 8 inch round pan . Sift the flour into the fruit mixture , add the egg and beat well . Pour into the cake pan and bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 1 hour and 45 minutes , or until toothpick inserted into center of cake comes out clean . Leave in the pan for 5 minutes , then turn out onto a wire rack . 
2 slices Irish bacon , diced 1 medium head cabbage , cored and cut into wedges 2 tablespoons melted butter 2 teaspoons ground nutmeg 2 cups water salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup red wine vinegar  | Preheat your oven's broiler . Place cabbage into a large pot . Add water and bring to a boil . Simmer over low heat until tender , about 15 minutes . Meanwhile , cook bacon in a skillet over medium-high heat until crisp . Drain and set aside . Drain cabbage , and drizzle with melted butter . Sprinkle with bacon and nutmeg . Transfer to a baking dish . Place under your oven's broiler until the top layer is lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Serve with salt , pepper and vinegar as desired . 
6 potatoes , peeled and thinly sliced 1/2 cup butter , cut into thin slices salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 pint half-and-half  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Arrange thinly sliced potatoes in a 9x13-inch baking dish . Layer butter slices on top of potatoes . Season with salt and black pepper . Pour half-and-half evenly over potato mixture . Bake in preheated oven until sauce has thickened and potatoes are tender , 45 to 60 minutes . 
1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup chopped onion 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (15.5 ounce) can white beans , drained and rinsed  | Melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir onion until soft , about 5 minutes . Stir flour and salt into onion until flour forms a paste , 1 to 2 minutes . Gradually whisk milk and Dijon mustard into onion mixture and bring to a simmer , whisking constantly until the sauce thickens , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir Cheddar cheese and white beans into sauce until cheese melts into sauce , 5 to 7 minutes . 
1 pound potatoes 4 cups shredded cabbage 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup skim milk 1 tablespoon butter 1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese 1 pinch salt and ground black pepper  | Place potatoes in a large pot and cover with salted water . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Drain and reserve the cooking liquid . Allow potatoes to cool until they can be handled . Boil cabbage and onion with the reserved potato water in a pot until softened , about 5 minutes . Drain . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 2-quart casserole dish . Peel and cut potatoes into chunks ; place in a large bowl . Mash skim milk and butter into potatoes until mixture is smooth . Stir drained cabbage and onion into potato mixture . Fold cream cheese , salt , and black pepper into potato mixture , stirring until the cream cheese melts . Pour potato mixture into prepared casserole dish . Bake in preheated oven until browned , 30 to 35 minutes . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 3 bay leaves 1/4 cup all-purpose flour , or as needed 2 pounds beef stew meat , cut into 1 1/2-inch cubes 2 yellow onions , quartered 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon dried rosemary leaves 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 (15 ounce) can Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 cup beef stock 2 large potatoes , cut into 1 1/2- inch cubes 1/2 pound carrots , peeled and thickly sliced 2 tablespoons chopped parsley salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C) . Heat olive oil and bay leaves in a 6-quart oven-proof pot over high heat . Place 1/4 cup flour in a shallow bowl , press beef cubes into flour , and sear beef in the hot oil until the meat has a browned crust , about 3 minutes per side . Cook and stir onions with beef until onions are translucent , 5 more minutes . Reduce heat to low . Combine garlic , thyme , and rosemary leaves with 2 tablespoons flour in a small bowl ; stir flour mixture into beef and onions until thoroughly combined . Pour beer and beef stock into mixture , stir to combine , and bring to a simmer . Cook , stirring often , until thickened , about 5 minutes . Mix potatoes , carrots , and parsley into beef and sauce ; cover pot . Braise stew in the preheated oven until potatoes are cooked through and beef is tender , about 3 hours ; stir occasionally . Season with salt and black pepper . 
1 pound pork sausage links 1/2 pound smoked bacon , cubed 2 onions , thinly sliced 3 carrots , chopped 4 large potatoes , peeled and sliced salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 teaspoon dried parsley (optional) 1 cup beef stock 1 1/2 cups Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1/2 cup heavy cream  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Place the sausages and bacon into a large skillet over medium heat , and cook until the sausages are browned on both sides , about 10 minutes . Slice the sausages into large chunks , and set the sausage and bacon aside . Place a layer of 1/3 of the onions in a 9x13-inch baking dish , followed by a layer of 1/3 of the carrots and sliced potatoes . Arrange 1/3 of sausage and bacon in a layer over the potatoes ; sprinkle with salt , pepper , and parsley . Repeat layers twice more . Warm the beef stock in a saucepan over medium heat , and pour in the stout beer and cream . Pour the sauce over the casserole , and let the sauce fill in the spaces in the layers . Bake in the preheated oven until the potatoes and vegetables are tender , about 1 1/2 hours . 
1 1/2 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 2 tablespoons margarine 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 4 1/4 cups bread flour 2 tablespoons dry milk powder 3 teaspoons caraway seed 2 teaspoons active dry yeast 2/3 cup raisins  | Add ingredients in order suggested by your manufacturer . Select fruit bread or basic bread setting . Add raisins when indicated by your manufacturer . 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar 1 egg 6 tablespoons Irish cream liqueur 1 (18.25 ounce) package chocolate cake mix without pudding 1 (3.9 ounce) package instant chocolate pudding mix 3 eggs 1/2 cup vegetable oil 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup white sugar 1/2 cup Irish whiskey  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 10-inch fluted tube pan (such as a Bundt(R)) and coat inside of pan with unsweetened cocoa powder . Beat cream cheese , confectioners' sugar , 1 egg , and Irish cream liqueur in a bowl until smooth and creamy . Set aside . Beat chocolate cake mix , chocolate pudding mix , 3 eggs , and vegetable oil in a separate bowl until batter is thick and smooth . Slowly beat Irish stout beer into the batter . Spoon 1/3 of the cake batter into the prepared pan ; layer the Irish cream filling on top . Spoon remaining cake batter over the filling . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean , 40 to 50 minutes . Loosen the edges of the cake from the pan with a thin spatula ; let cake rest in pan 15 minutes . Invert pan over a wire rack to release cake and allow to cool completely on the rack . While cake is cooling , melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat and stir in white sugar and Irish whiskey . Bring to a boil , stirring to dissolve sugar , reduce heat to low , and simmer until thickened , about 10 minutes . Transfer cake to a serving platter . Generously brush whiskey glaze over cooled cake several times and allow glaze to soak into cake . 
2 slices bacon , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1/4 cup minced white onion 2 tablespoons green bell pepper , chopped 2 cups whole kernel corn , drained 1 tablespoon chopped pimento peppers salt and pepper to taste  | Place the bacon in a large , deep skillet , and cook over medium heat , stirring until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain the bacon on a paper towel-lined plate , leaving the grease in the skillet . Stir the onion and bell pepper into the skillet , and cook until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the corn , pimentos , and reserved bacon . Cook and stir until heated through , 3 to 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper before serving . 
1 pint heavy cream 1 (11.5 ounce) package bittersweet chocolate chips 3/4 cup sugar 1 pint stout beer (such as Guinness®)  | Heat the heavy cream in a saucepan over medium-low heat until it begins to bubble . Remove from the heat and stir in the chocolate and sugar until melted . Slowly stir in the stout beer . Cover and refrigerate until completely cooled . Pour the chilled mixture into an ice cream maker and freeze according to manufacturer's directions until it reaches "soft-serve" consistency . Transfer ice cream to a two-quart lidded plastic container ; cover surface with plastic wrap and seal . For best results , ice cream should ripen in the freezer for at least 2 hours or overnight . 
3 cups self-rising flour 3/4 cup white sugar 1/4 cup butter 2 cups raisins 1 egg 1 cup milk 1 tablespoon milk  | Preheat an oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 9-inch round baking dish . In a large bowl , cut together the self-rising flour , sugar , and butter with a pastry cutter until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs . Stir in the raisins . In a separate bowl , whisk together egg with 1 cup of milk . Lightly mix the milk mixture into the flour mixture until it holds together . Place dough in prepared baking dish , and brush top with 1 tablespoon of milk for a nice golden brown crust . Place the bread into the preheated oven . Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) , and bake for 1 hour . Let cool before serving . 
3/4 cup superfine sugar 1/2 cup margarine 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 pinch ginger 1 1/2 cups self-rising flour 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar 1 pinch cardamom (optional)  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lay out about 18 cupcake (muffin) papers on a baking sheet or place them in a muffin pan . In a medium bowl , cream together the sugar and margarine until light and fluffy . Beat in the eggs one at a time using an electric mixer , or the whole thing may be mixed in a blender . Add cinnamon and ginger to the batter and mix well . Stir in the flour until well blended . Spoon a generous tablespoon of the batter into each paper , and level it out . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , until the tops spring back when lightly pressed . Dust with confectioners' sugar and cardamom when cooled . 
1 1/2 cups butter , softened 3 cups white sugar 6 eggs at room temperature 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 cups all-purpose flour , sifted  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 10-inch fluted tube pan (such as a Bundt(R)) . Cream butter and sugar together in a mixing bowl until thoroughly combined . Beat in eggs , one at a time , beating each egg until fully incorporated before adding the next one . Mix in cream cheese and vanilla extract . Mix in flour , about 1/2 cup at a time , until batter is smooth and velvety . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake cake in the preheated oven until top is golden brown , about 1 1/2 hours . 
8 large russet potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 1/2 small onion , minced salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/2 cup butter , melted 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream 1/2 cup half-and-half 1/4 teaspoon paprika (optional) 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley (optional)  | Place the potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water ; bring to a boil . Cook the potatoes at a boil for 10 minutes ; drain . Set potatoes aside to cool . Once potatoes are cool enough to handle , slide the skin from the potatoes and discard ; refrigerate peeled potatoes until completely cold , about 1 hour . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with 1 tablespoon butter . Grate 2 of the potatoes into the bottom of the prepared baking dish . Sprinkle about 1/4 of the minced onion over the layer of potato ; season with salt and black pepper . Repeat layering until all ingredients are used and dish is full . Drizzle melted butter , whipping cream , and half and half over the potato mixture ; season with paprika . Bake in the preheated oven until the top is bubbling , about 30 minutes . Garnish with chopped fresh parsley to serve . 
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 1 1/4 cups unsalted butter 4 ounces dark chocolate , chopped 2 cups superfine white sugar 2 eggs 1/2 cup creme fraiche 1/2 cup unsalted butter 4 ounces dark chocolate , chopped 5 tablespoons Irish stout beer (such as Guinness®) 4 ounces cream cheese , softened 1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar , or more as needed  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease 2 9-inch cake pans , and dust with 1 tablespoon cocoa . In a heavy saucepan over low heat , heat 1 cup of stout beer , 1 1/4 cup of unsalted butter , 4 ounces of dark chocolate , and the superfine sugar just until the butter and chocolate have melted ; stir to blend mixture , and cool slightly . Beat the eggs and creme fraiche together in a large mixing bowl ; gradually stir in the flour and baking soda . Add the melted chocolate mixture in small additions , stirring to blend . Pour half the batter into each prepared cake pan . Bake in the preheated oven until the top of the cake bounces back when touched lightly with a finger , about 40 minutes . Cool the cakes on racks . To make the icing , place 1/2 cup of unsalted butter , 4 ounces of dark chocolate , and 5 tablespoons of stout beer in a heavy saucepan over low heat , and cook , stirring , just until the chocolate has melted ; stir to blend mixture . Remove from heat , and cool slightly . Sift the confectioners' sugar . In a mixing bowl , blend the cream cheese , 1/3 cup of cocoa powder , and vanilla extract until smooth ; gradually beat in 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar . Pour in the cooled chocolate-stout mixture and mix well . Add confectioners' sugar until the icing is your desired consistency , adding more if you like a stiffer icing . Place a cake on a serving plate , and smooth about one third of the frosting over the cake top . Place the second cake onto the frosted layer , and spread remaining two thirds of the frosting over the top and sides of the cake . 
1 pastry for a 9 inch single crust pie 1 (4 pound) whole chicken , deboned and cut into bite size pieces 4 slices cooked ham 4 leeks , chopped 1 onion , chopped salt and pepper to taste 1 pinch ground mace 1 1/4 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon milk 1/2 cup heavy cream  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a 1 1/2 quart casserole dish , layer the chicken , ham , leeks and onion a couple of times each until the dish is full . Season each layer with a little salt , pepper and mace . Pour the chicken stock over the layers , and dampen the edges of the dish . Roll the pie pastry out large enough to cover the top of the dish , and place over the top . Crimp the sides down with a fork , and trim the excess from the edges . Cut a round hole in the center of the pastry . Roll dough scraps out and cut into strips . Use the strips to form a design , and place lightly over the hole . Brush the entire top with milk . Bake for 35 to 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until chicken is cooked through . If the top crust is getting too brown , cover it with parchment or aluminum foil . While the pie is baking , heat the cream over low heat . When the pie is cooked , remove from the oven , and carefully remove the design from the hole . Pour the cream into the hole , and replace the design . Let stand for a few minutes before serving . 
6 thick slices bacon 2 tablespoons butter or margarine 4 eggs 2 small tomatoes , sliced 1 1/2 cups whole mushrooms 4 slices prepared soda bread  | Lay the bacon slices in a single layer in a large skillet . Fry over medium heat until it begins to get tinged with brown . Fry on both sides . Remove from pan , but save grease . Melt butter in skillet . Crack eggs into pan , being careful not to break yolks . Place tomato slices , mushrooms , and bread in pan . Fry gently , stirring mushrooms and tomatoes occasionally . Keep everything separate . Turn bread over to brown on both sides . When egg whites are set , but yolks are still runny , dish half of everything onto each of 2 warmed plates , and serve immediately . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 2/3 cup white sugar 1/2 cup margarine 5 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons caraway seed 2 1/2 cups raisins 2 cups buttermilk 3 tablespoons milk (optional) 3 tablespoons sour cream (optional)  | Combine flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda , and salt in a large bowl . Use fingers or a pastry cutter to press in butter or margarine , like a pie crust . When mixture looks fine and crumbly , add raisins and caraway seeds . Mix together and then add eggs , buttermilk , and sour cream . If mixture is not moist , add milk . Pour into two greased and lightly floured loaf pans or a frying pan . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 45 to 60 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted in the bread comes out clean . 
1 cup water 4 cups candied mixed fruit 1 cup white sugar 3/4 cup butter 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon mixed spice 2 eggs , beaten  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Grease a 9x5 inch loaf pan , and line with parchment paper or aluminum foil . Combine the water , mixed fruit , sugar and butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Bring to a boil , stirring occasionally , and boil gently for about 10 minutes . Sift the flour , baking soda and mixed spice into a large bowl . Pour in the boiled mixture , and stir until well blended . Mix in the eggs . Pour into the greased loaf pan . Bake for 90 minutes in the preheated oven , until a skewer or knife inserted into the top comes out clean . Cool cake in the pan for at least 10 minutes before removing . 
2 thick slices Irish bacon 2 sausages 1 soda bread farl , sliced in half horizontally 2 potato bread farls 1 tablespoon vegetable oil , or as needed 2 slices black pudding 1 tomato , halved 2 eggs  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . In a large non-stick skillet over medium heat , cook the bacon and sausages , until they are browned . Reserving the fat in the pan , transfer to a heat resistant dish . Keep warm in the oven . Fry both sides of the potato and soda farls in the reserved fat for a few minutes , or until they are golden and crispy . Meanwhile , heat oil in smaller skillet over medium heat and cook black pudding slices and tomato halves . Transfer everything to the dish in the oven to keep warm . Crack eggs into the pan with any residual bacon grease , adding more oil to the skillet if necessary . Fry until egg whites are set but yolks are still runny , or to your liking . Divide everything onto 2 separate plates and serve immediately . 
1 (1 pound) package bacon 1 onion , chopped 1 cup celery , chopped 6 potatoes , scrubbed and cubed salt and pepper to taste 2 (12 fluid ounce) cans evaporated milk  | Place the bacon in a large , deep skillet , and cook over medium-high heat , turning occasionally , until evenly browned , about 10 minutes . Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate , crumble , and set aside . Cook and stir onion and celery in the remaining bacon grease over medium heat until the onion is translucent and tender . Drain excess grease , then stir in potatoes . Add water to cover all but 1 inch of the potatoes . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat , then reduce to medium-low , and simmer until potatoes are tender , about 15 minutes , stirring often . Stir in the evaporated milk , and continue cooking until warmed through . Season with salt and pepper . Stir in bacon just before serving . 
