1 (16 ounce) package lasagna noodles 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 1 carrot , finely chopped 1 stalk celery , finely chopped 3/4 pound mushrooms , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 cup dry white wine 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 2 sun-dried tomatoes , chopped 1 teaspoon dried thyme salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1/3 cup all-purpose flour 3 cups heavy whipping cream 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 pinch salt 8 cups spinach , rinsed 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Cook lasagna in boiling salted water in a large pot until al dente . Drain . Meanwhile , heat one half tablespoon of olive oil in a Dutch oven over medium heat . Add the chopped onion , celery , and carrots , stir and cook until onions have softened . Add mushrooms and garlic and continue to cook until the mushrooms have released their liquid , 2 or 3 minutes . Add wine and cook until most of the liquid has evaporated . Stir in chopped tomatoes(include liquid) , sun-dried tomatoes , and thyme . Bring to a simmer , then reduce heat to low and simmer until thick . Season with salt and pepper . To make the white sauce , heat remaining oil in a heavy pan over low heat . Add flour , whisk constantly until the flour begins to turn a light brown . Remove pan from heat and whisk in cream . Season with nutmeg and a pinch of salt . Remove from heat and set aside . To assemble , spread 1/2 cup of the mushroom sauce in the bottom of a casserole dish , add one layer of noodles , then another 1/2 cup of mushroom sauce . Arrange a single layer of the fresh spinach leaves over the sauce and drizzle them with 1/3 cup of the white sauce . Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of the grated Parmesan cheese over the spinach and top with another layer of the noodles . Repeat 5 times . In a preheated 375 degree F (190 degrees C) oven bake for 40 minutes . Let stand for 10 to 15 minutes . Serve warm . 
1 1/2 pounds coarsely ground pork 1 1/2 pounds sweet Italian sausage without fennel , casings removed 1 1/2 pounds ground beef sirloin 1 1/2 pounds ground beef chuck 1/2 loaf day-old (hard) Italian bread , torn into chunks 1 (32 ounce) carton low-sodium chicken broth 1 whole head garlic , minced 1 cup packed fresh Italian parsley leaves 4 large eggs , beaten 8 ounces Pecorino Romano cheese (such as Locatelli®) , grated 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 2 tablespoons unsalted butter  | Combine ground pork , Italian sausage , ground sirloin , and ground chuck in a large bowl . Mix them with your hands until thoroughly combined . Soak bread chunks in chicken broth in a bowl until completely soft . Combine garlic and parsley in a mini chopper or food processor and grind to a fine paste . Squeeze the excess broth out of the bread , reserving the broth in a bowl , and add the bread to the meats along with the garlic and parsley paste . Gently mix in beaten eggs and grated Pecorino Romano cheese with your hands until fully incorporated into the meat mixture . If the mixture seems dry , pour in some of the reserved chicken broth . Pinch off golf ball-sized pieces of the meat mixture and roll them into meatballs , taking care not to pack them too tightly , and set them on a baking tray . Depending on how big you make them , you should end up with about 30 meatballs . Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Working in two or three batches , brown the meatballs on all sides and drain on paper towels . If you're adding them to a pot of sauce , you may undercook them slightly , as they will finish cooking in the sauce . 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour for coating 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded 1/4 inch thick 4 tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons olive oil 1 cup sliced mushrooms 1/2 cup Marsala wine 1/4 cup cooking sherry  | In a shallow dish or bowl , mix together the flour , salt , pepper and oregano . Coat chicken pieces in flour mixture . In a large skillet , melt butter in oil over medium heat . Place chicken in the pan , and lightly brown . Turn over chicken pieces , and add mushrooms . Pour in wine and sherry . Cover skillet ; simmer chicken 10 minutes , turning once , until no longer pink and juices run clear . 
4 slices bacon 3 green onions , chopped 2 cloves garlic , chopped 2 (15 ounce) cans green beans , drained 1 (14.5 ounce) can Italian-style diced tomatoes 1 pinch dried basil 1 pinch dried oregano 1/4 cup brown sugar  | Cook bacon in a skillet over medium heat until crisp . Remove from the pan to drain on paper towels . Reserve the grease in the skillet and add the onions ; cook and stir over medium heat until softened . Add garlic and cook for about 30 seconds more . Remove from the heat . In a saucepan , combine the green beans , tomatoes , basil , oregano and brown sugar . Crumble in the bacon and add the onion and garlic from the skillet . Warm over medium heat until heated through , 5 to 10 minutes . 
1 1/2 pounds coarsely ground pork 1 1/2 pounds sweet Italian sausage without fennel , casings removed 1 1/2 pounds ground beef sirloin 1 1/2 pounds ground beef chuck 1/2 loaf day-old (hard) Italian bread , torn into chunks 1 (32 ounce) carton low-sodium chicken broth 1 whole head garlic , minced 1 cup packed fresh Italian parsley leaves 4 large eggs , beaten 8 ounces Pecorino Romano cheese (such as Locatelli®) , grated 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 2 tablespoons unsalted butter  | Combine ground pork , Italian sausage , ground sirloin , and ground chuck in a large bowl . Mix them with your hands until thoroughly combined . Soak bread chunks in chicken broth in a bowl until completely soft . Combine garlic and parsley in a mini chopper or food processor and grind to a fine paste . Squeeze the excess broth out of the bread , reserving the broth in a bowl , and add the bread to the meats along with the garlic and parsley paste . Gently mix in beaten eggs and grated Pecorino Romano cheese with your hands until fully incorporated into the meat mixture . If the mixture seems dry , pour in some of the reserved chicken broth . Pinch off golf ball-sized pieces of the meat mixture and roll them into meatballs , taking care not to pack them too tightly , and set them on a baking tray . Depending on how big you make them , you should end up with about 30 meatballs . Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Working in two or three batches , brown the meatballs on all sides and drain on paper towels . If you're adding them to a pot of sauce , you may undercook them slightly , as they will finish cooking in the sauce . 
6 cups chicken broth salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons semolina flour 3 large eggs 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 ounce grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 1/2 ounce grated pecorino Romano cheese 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 pinch freshly grated nutmeg 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 pinch red pepper flakes  | Bring broth to a simmer in a pot over high heat . Taste broth and adjust salt and pepper as needed . Whisk eggs , parsley , semolina flour , grated Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino Romano cheeses , salt , pepper , cayenne pepper , and nutmeg together in a bowl until well blended . While stirring the simmering broth , slowly pour egg mixture into the broth . Bring mixture back up to a simmer . The liquid will be slightly cloudy initially and clear as broth heats . Serve in bowls ; garnish with a drizzle of olive oil and a pinch of red pepper flakes . 
Gnocchi : 1 (8 ounce) container ricotta cheese 2 eggs 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 cup all-purpose flour , or as needed Sauce : 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 dash crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 6 basil leaves , finely shredded Salt and pepper to taste 8 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese , cut into small chunks  | Stir together the ricotta cheese , eggs , Parmesan Cheese , salt , pepper , and garlic powder in a large bowl until evenly combined . Mix in 1 cup of flour . Add additional flour if needed to form a soft dough . Divide the dough into 3 or 4 pieces , and roll into 1/2-inch-thick ropes on a floured surface . Cut each rope into 1-inch pieces , and place on a lightly floured baking sheet . Place in the refrigerator until ready to use . Heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , and cook until softened and fragrant , about 1 minute . Pour in diced tomatoes and red pepper flakes ; bring to a simmer over medium-high heat , and cook for 10 minutes . Stir in shredded basil and season to taste with salt and pepper . While sauce is simmering , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil over high heat . Boil the gnocchi until they float to the surface , 1 to 2 minutes , then drain . To assemble the dish , stir the cubed mozzarella cheese into the sauce and allow the heat of the sauce to soften , but not melt the cheese . Place gnocchi into a serving bowl , and spoon sauce overtop . 
6 egg yolks 3/4 cup white sugar 2/3 cup milk 1 1/4 cups heavy cream 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 pound mascarpone cheese 1/4 cup strong brewed coffee , room temperature 2 tablespoons rum 2 (3 ounce) packages ladyfinger cookies 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder  | In a medium saucepan , whisk together egg yolks and sugar until well blended . Whisk in milk and cook over medium heat , stirring constantly , until mixture boils . Boil gently for 1 minute , remove from heat and allow to cool slightly . Cover tightly and chill in refrigerator 1 hour . In a medium bowl , beat cream with vanilla until stiff peaks form . Whisk mascarpone into yolk mixture until smooth . In a small bowl , combine coffee and rum . Split ladyfingers in half lengthwise and drizzle with coffee mixture . Arrange half of soaked ladyfingers in bottom of a 7x11 inch dish . Spread half of mascarpone mixture over ladyfingers , then half of whipped cream over that . Repeat layers and sprinkle with cocoa . Cover and refrigerate 4 to 6 hours , until set . 
1 pound spaghetti 6 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 3/4 cups grated Pecorino Romano cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook spaghetti in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until tender yet firm to the bite , about 10 minutes . Scoop out some of the cooking water and reserve . Drain spaghetti . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add garlic and pepper ; cook and stir until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Add spaghetti and Pecorino Romano cheese . Ladle in 1/2 cup of reserved cooking water ; stir until cheese is melted , about 1 minute . Add more cooking water until sauce coats spaghetti , about 1 minute more . 
2 green bell peppers , diced 2 red bell peppers , diced 8 fresh jalapeno peppers , sliced 1 celery stalk , diced 1 medium carrot , diced 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 cup fresh cauliflower florets 1/2 cup salt water to cover 2 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1 (5 ounce) jar pimento-stuffed green olives , chopped 1 cup white vinegar 1 cup olive oil  | Place into a bowl the green and red peppers , jalapenos , celery , carrots , onion , and cauliflower . Stir in salt , and fill with enough cold water to cover . Place plastic wrap or aluminum foil over the bowl , and refrigerate overnight . The next day , drain salty water , and rinse vegetables . In a bowl , mix together garlic , oregano , red pepper flakes , black pepper , and olives . Pour in vinegar and olive oil , and mix well . Combine with vegetable mixture , cover , and refrigerate for 2 days before using . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 6 ounces pancetta or salt pork , diced 2 1/2 pounds beef chuck 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1/2 cup diced celery 1/2 cup diced carrot 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1 bay leaf 2/3 cup white wine 4 pounds yellow onions , sliced 2 pounds red onions , sliced salt to taste 2 (16 ounce) boxes uncooked rigatoni 1 tablespoon chopped fresh marjoram leaves 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat . Cook pancetta until most of fat is rendered out , about 6 minutes . Remove cooked pancetta with a slotted spoon and save . Raise heat to high and transfer meat to the pot . Season with salt . Cook and stir until liquid releases from beef and begins to evaporate , and meat browns , 10 to 15 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-high . Add celery , carrots , reserved cooked pancetta , salt and pepper . Cook and stir about 5 minutes . Add a heaping tablespoon of tomato paste , bay leaf , and white wine . Cook and stir , scraping up the brownings from the bottom of the pan , 2 to 3 minutes . Add sliced onions . Reduce heat to medium . Cover pot and cook 30 minutes without stirring . After 30 minutes , stir onions and meat until well mixed . Cover again , and cook another 30 minutes . Stir . Reduce heat to low and cook uncovered 8 to 10 hours , stirring occasionally . Skim off fat as mixture cooks . If sauce seems to reduce too much , add water or broth as needed to maintain a sauce-like consistency . Cook until beef and onions seem to melt into each other . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook rigatoni in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until just barely al dente , 10 to 12 minutes . Drain . Add rigatoni to the sauce and cook until heated through . Serve topped with a pinch of marjoram and freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese . 
1 pound spaghetti 4 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 (2 ounce) can anchovy fillets , chopped 1 cup fine bread crumbs 1 cup chopped fresh parsley ground black pepper to taste 4 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , in a medium skillet , heat olive oil over medium heat and add garlic and anchovies to cook for about 2 minutes ; stir constantly . Stir in breadcrumbs and turn off heat . Add parsley and black ground pepper ; mix together . Toss anchovy sauce with hot pasta and sprinkle with cheese ; serve . 
2 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 1/2 teaspoon brown sugar 1 1/2 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil 3 1/3 cups all-purpose flour  | In a large bowl , dissolve the yeast and brown sugar in the water , and let sit for 10 minutes . Stir the salt and oil into the yeast solution . Mix in 2 1/2 cups of the flour . Turn dough out onto a clean , well floured surface , and knead in more flour until the dough is no longer sticky . Place the dough into a well oiled bowl , and cover with a cloth . Let the dough rise until double ; this should take about 1 hour . Punch down the dough , and form a tight ball . Allow the dough to relax for a minute before rolling out . Use for your favorite pizza recipe . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . If you are baking the dough on a pizza stone , you may place your toppings on the dough , and bake immediately . If you are baking your pizza in a pan , lightly oil the pan , and let the dough rise for 15 or 20 minutes before topping and baking it . Bake pizza in preheated oven , until the cheese and crust are golden brown , about 15 to 20 minutes . 
1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 1/2 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 2 garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon dried rosemary 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 (10 inch) flour tortillas 4 slices salami  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Mix tomato sauce , Parmesan cheese , mozzarella cheese , Cheddar cheese , garlic , rosemary , basil , red pepper flakes , oregano , salt , and pepper together in a bowl . Lay tortillas onto a baking sheet ; top with tomato sauce mixture . Arrange 2 salami slices into each pizza . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is golden brown , 9 to 12 minutes . 
Filling : 1 tablespoon coconut oil 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 onion , diced 1 pound extra-lean ground beef 1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 chile pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon ground turmeric 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander Ravioli : 2 zucchini , or more to taste 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese (optional) 1 (4 ounce) package feta cheese , crumbled 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil (optional)  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Heat coconut oil in a skillet over medium heat ; add garlic . Cook until fragrant , about 1 minute . Add onion ; cook and stir until softened , 1 to 2 minutes . Add ground beef ; cook and stir until browned and crumbly , 5 to 7 minutes . Stir 4-ounce can tomato sauce , chile pepper , turmeric , black pepper , cumin , and coriander into the beef mixture ; cook and stir until heated through , 3 to 4 minutes . Remove from heat . Peel zucchini into large flat ribbons using a vegetable peeler . Arrange 2 pieces in an "x" shape . Place a piece of feta cheese in the middle of the zucchini "x" ; add a spoonful of beef mixture . Carefully wrap the ends of zucchini ribbons over the top to form a ravioli-shape . Repeat with remaining zucchini , feta cheese , and beef mixture . Coat the bottom of a baking dish with 1/2 of the 15-ounce can tomato sauce . Arrange zucchini "ravioli" over sauce . Top with remaining tomato sauce , basil , and Parmesan cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until sauce has thickened and cheese is golden brown , 15 to 20 minutes . 
4 large fresh artichokes 1 fresh lemon , cut into wedges 8 ounces pecorino Romano cheese , thinly sliced 4 cloves garlic 2 tablespoons olive oil , or to taste 1 pinch salt  | Cut the stems and the tops off each artichoke . Wiggle the artichoke back and forth with your thumbs to open the leaves . Snap off and discard the tough outer leaves . Place lemon wedges in a large bowl of water . Soak artichokes for 30 minutes . Remove the artichokes from the water and shake off excess water . Insert slices of pecorino Romano cheese between the artichoke leaves . Place a garlic clove into the centre of each artichoke . Place a steamer insert into a saucepan and fill with water to just below the bottom of the steamer . Arrange artichokes upright in the steamer . Drizzle olive oil over the artichokes and water ; add salt . Bring water to a boil . Cook artichokes until the cheese in the centre has melted and you can easily pull an outer leaf away , about 30 minutes . 
1 1/3 pounds veal medallions 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour , or as needed 2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup Marsala wine 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon cornstarch  | Place veal between 2 sheets of heavy plastic on a solid , level surface ; pound to 1/4-inch thickness with the smooth side of a meat mallet . Pat dry with a paper towel and dust with flour on both sides . Melt butter with olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat until it starts to foam . Add veal ; cook until browned , 3 to 4 minutes per side . Season with salt . Transfer veal to a plate . Cover with aluminum foil to keep warm . Pour Marsala wine into the same skillet . Stir to scrape up browned bits from the bottom of the skillet , about 2 minutes . Stir water and cornstarch together in a small bowl until cornstarch dissolves . Stir into the Marsala wine in the skillet . Season with salt and pepper . Cook until sauce thickens , about 5 minutes . Return veal to the skillet ; cook until heated through , about 1 minute . Remove from heat and serve topped with sauce . 
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil , or as needed 6 eggplants , trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch thick slices salt to taste 2 cups tomato puree 1 tablespoon olive oil , or more to taste 2 cloves garlic 1 bunch fresh basil , divided 18 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese , drained and sliced dried oregano , to taste 4 ounces grated Parmesan cheese  | Heat about 1 inch extra-virgin olive oil in a deep skillet over medium heat . Pat eggplant slices dry with a paper towel and fry eggplant in batches in the hot oil until golden , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Transfer eggplant to a paper towel-lined plate using a slotted spoon ; season with salt . Combine tomato puree , 1 tablespoon olive oil , garlic , salt , and 4 basil leaves in a saucepan ; simmer over medium heat for 10 minutes . Remove garlic from sauce . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking dish . Place a layer of fried eggplant in the baking dish and cover with a layer of tomato sauce . Top with a layer of mozzarella cheese , oregano , Parmesan cheese , and chopped basil leaves , in that order . Continue layering in the same order with remaining ingredients , ending with a layer of mozzarella cheese and a drizzle of olive oil . Bake in the preheated oven until heated through and cheeses are melted , about 40 minutes . Let stand a few minutes before slicing . 
4 quarts water 2 teaspoons salt 1 (16 ounce) package spaghetti 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 (1 pound) package bacon , chopped 2 cups fresh corn 2 cups heavy whipping cream salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 bunch pea shoots (optional)  | Combine water and 2 teaspoons salt in a large pot ; cover and bring to a boil . Add spaghetti ; cook , stirring occasionally , until pasta is tender yet firm to the bite , about 7 minutes . Drain . Heat olive oil in a skillet over high heat ; cook and stir bacon until browned , 3 to 5 minutes . Add corn and cook for 1 minute . Pour in heavy cream and bring to a simmer ; season with salt and pepper . Mix drained pasta into cream mixture ; cook and stir for 2 minutes . Transfer pasta mixture to bowls and top with pea shoots . 
4 ounces romaine lettuce , chopped 1/2 cup chopped radicchio 1/2 Roma tomato , diced 3 slices Genoa salami , diced 3 thin slices capicola , diced 3 slices pepperoni , diced 3 tablespoons canned garbanzo beans 3 tablespoons sliced black olives 2 tablespoons freshly grated mozzarella cheese , or to taste 2 tablespoons Italian-style salad dressing , or to taste 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese , or to taste  | Toss romaine lettuce and radicchio together in a bowl . Add Roma tomato , salami , pepperoni , garbanzo beans , olives , and mozzarella cheese ; mix well . Pour Italian-style salad dressing over salad ; mix well . Garnish salad with Parmesan cheese . 
2 (3 ounce) packages prosciutto 1 (.75 ounce) package fresh basil leaves 2 (8 ounce) packages fresh mozzarella cheese marinated in olive oil toothpicks 2 (4 ounce) packages sliced soppressata  | Place a slice of prosciutto on a work surface ; top with 1 basil leaf and 1 mozzarella ball . Roll prosciutto around basil and mozzarella cheese and secure with a toothpick . Repeat process , alternating with soppressata , until all ingredients are used . Refrigerate until serving . 
1 pound fresh anchovies , rinsed 2 cups white vinegar 7 ounces dried bread crumbs 2 tablespoons capers , minced 2 tablespoons minced Italian parsley 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil , or as needed  | Slice open the bottom of each anchovy and pull out the bone . Open each fillet as you would a book and arrange in the bottom of a shallow dish . Pour white vinegar on top . Marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours . Drain and discard the vinegar . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Brush a baking dish lightly with olive oil . Mix bread crumbs , capers , parsley , and garlic together in a bowl . Sprinkle some of the bread crumb mixture into the bottom of the baking dish . Arrange some anchovies in a single layer in the baking dish , still open like a book . Brush lightly with olive oil ; cover with some of the bread crumb mixture . Repeat layers with remaining anchovies , olive oil , and bread crumb mixture . Bake in the preheated oven until top is crispy and lightly browned , about 20 minutes . 
Cilantro Pesto : 2 cups chopped fresh cilantro leaves and soft stems 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons toasted almonds 1 1/2 tablespoons plain non-fat yogurt 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon juice 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper Pasta : 3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup whole wheat flour , or as needed 4 eggs 1/2 teaspoon olive oil Filling : 1 cup light ricotta cheese 1/3 cup Parmesan cheese 4 egg yolks 1 egg white 2 teaspoons water  | Place cilantro leaves , garlic , 2 tablespoons olive oil , toasted almonds , yogurt , lemon juice , salt , and pepper into a food processor . Pulse until mixture becomes a paste-like pesto , 6 or 7 pulses . Mix all-purpose flour and whole wheat flour together in a bowl . Mound flour on a work surface such as a large wooden cutting board . Create a well in the center of the flour ; add 4 eggs and 1/2 teaspoon olive oil into the middle of the well . Beat the eggs and olive oil and gradually begin incorporating the flour a little at a time using a fork , lifting flour up from the sides until most of the flour is incorporated into the eggs . Shape into a ball . Knead dough until it is elastic , 5 to 10 minutes , adding additional flour if it is too sticky . Roll dough out into a large rectangle about 1/16 inch thick . Cut into 8 6x6-inch squares . Mix ricotta cheese and Parmesan cheeses together in a small mixing bowl . Transfer to a piping bag or plastic bag (cut a small piece off a corner of the bag) . Pipe a small circle of cheese mixture large enough to hold an egg yolk in the middle of 4 of the dough squares . Place an egg yolk in the center of each circle . Mix 1 egg white and 2 teaspoons water together in a small bowl . Brush egg wash on edges of the pasta squares outside the egg yolk circle . Carefully place remaining 4 pasta squares on the egg yolks . Gently seal edges and try to eliminate any air pockets . Use a 6-inch round cookie cutter to remove the corners of the squares . Press edges of ravioli with tines of a fork to strengthen the seal . Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rolling boil ; reduce heat to medium-high so water is just simmering . Carefully transfer ravioli to water ; gently stir . Cook until pasta is tender , about 3 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon and place on 4 warm serving plates . Serve topped with a spoonful of pesto . 
MEATBALLS 1 pound lean ground beef 1 cup fresh bread crumbs 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder 1 egg , beaten SAUCE 3/4 cup chopped onion 5 cloves garlic , minced 1/4 cup olive oil 2 (28 ounce) cans whole peeled tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 bay leaf 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 3/4 teaspoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper  | In a large bowl , combine ground beef , bread crumbs , parsley , Parmesan , 1/4 teaspoon black pepper , garlic powder and beaten egg . Mix well and form into 12 balls . Store , covered , in refrigerator until needed . In a large saucepan over medium heat , saute onion and garlic in olive oil until onion is translucent . Stir in tomatoes , salt , sugar and bay leaf . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer 90 minutes . Stir in tomato paste , basil , 1/2 teaspoon pepper and meatballs and simmer 30 minutes more . Serve . 
1 quart vegetable stock , or as needed 1/4 cup olive oil , divided 1/2 carrot , minced 1/2 stalk celery , minced 2 tablespoons minced onion 3/4 cup Arborio rice 2 tablespoons red wine 1 head radicchio , thinly sliced 3 ounces Gorgonzola cheese , cut into cubes 1/3 cup chopped walnuts 2 tablespoons balsamic glaze (reduced balsamic vinegar) 2 tablespoons grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese (optional)  | Bring vegetable stock to a boil in a saucepan ; reduce heat to low and keep simmering . Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a stockpot over medium heat ; cook and stir carrot , celery , and onion until onion is translucent , about 2 minutes . Add remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil ; stir in rice . Cook and stir until rice is coated with oil and warm , 1 to 2 minutes . Pour in red wine and stir until rice is coated and wine is absorbed , 2 to 3 minutes . Pour 1 ladleful of warm vegetable stock into the rice mixture ; cook , stirring continuously , until stock is absorbed , 2 to 3 minutes . Continue adding stock , 1 ladleful at a time , cooking and stirring after each addition until liquid is absorbed and risotto is easily broken when chewed , 10 to 15 minutes . Stir radicchio , Gorgonzola cheese , and walnuts into risotto until cheese is completely melted , 2 to 3 minutes . Add more stock and cook until risotto is tender yet firm to the bite , about 5 minutes more . Remove from heat and cover stockpot for 1 minute . Spoon risotto onto plates and top with balsamic glaze and Parmigiano-Reggiano . 
1 quart milk 5 tablespoons butter , divided salt to taste 1 1/2 cups fine semolina flour 2 egg yolks 1 1/4 cups grated Grana Padano cheese , divided 1/3 cup grated Gruyere cheese 1 (3 ounce) package pancetta bacon , diced 1 pinch ground nutmeg , or to taste  | Combine milk , 1/4 cup butter , and a pinch of salt in a saucepan ; bring to a boil . Whisk semolina into boiling milk , mixing well to prevent lumps . Reduce heat and cook , stirring often , until thickened , 3 to 4 minutes . Remove saucepan from heat . Add egg yolks , 1 cup Grana Padano , and Gruyere cheese ; stir well . Heat a nonstick skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir pancetta until crisp , 7 to 10 minutes . Stir pancetta into semolina mixture . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease 2 baking sheets with 1 1/2 teaspoon butter . Spread semolina mixture onto 1 of the prepared baking sheets , about 1/2-inch thick . Allow to cool to room temperature , about 15 minutes . Cut small disks out of cooled semolina using a juice glass or cookie cutter . Place the disks onto the other prepared baking sheet , slightly overlapping the disks . Sprinkle the remaining Grana Padano cheese over disks and dot with remaining 1 1/2 teaspoon butter . Bake in the preheated oven until gnocchi are nicely crisp and golden , about 20 minutes . 
1 (14 ounce) package spaghetti 5 ounces guanciale (cured pork cheek) , cut into small cubes 3 egg yolks 1 egg 3/4 cup grated Pecorino-Romano cheese salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook spaghetti in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until tender yet firm to the bite , about 12 minutes . Drain . Heat a skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir guanciale until crisp , 5 to 10 minutes . Whisk egg yolks and egg together in a bowl ; add Pecorino-Romano cheese , salt , and pepper and whisk well . Stir in guanciale . Add spaghetti and toss until evenly coated . 
Bolognese Sauce : 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 small onion , chopped 1 carrot , chopped 1 shallot , minced 3 1/2 ounces prosciutto , chopped 11 ounces ground pork 11 ounces ground beef 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon salt to taste 6 fluid ounces red wine 21 ounces peeled San Marzano tomatoes White Sauce : 6 tablespoons butter 2/3 cup all-purpose flour 3 1/4 cups milk 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg salt and ground black pepper to taste Lasagna Layers : 11 ounces lasagna noodles 2 1/2 cups grated Parmesan cheese , or to taste  | Heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook and stir onion , carrot , shallot , and prosciutto until onion is translucent and prosciutto releases some fat , about 10 minutes . Add pork and beef ; season with 1 teaspoon nutmeg , cinnamon , and salt to taste . Cook and stir over medium-high heat until browned and crumbly , about 10 minutes . Pour red wine over meat mixture ; increase heat and cook until wine evaporates , about 3 minutes . Add tomatoes and mix well ; bring to a boil , cover , reduce heat , and simmer , stirring occasionally , until tomatoes break down and flavors of Bolognese sauce have combined , 1 1/2 to 2 hours . Melt butter in a saucepan over medium-low heat ; add flour . Whisk vigorously until mixture is smooth . Pour in milk and cook , stirring occasionally , over medium heat until white sauce thickens enough to cover the back of a spoon , about 10 minutes ; season with 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg , salt , and pepper . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook lasagna noodles in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until tender yet firm to the bite , about 8 minutes . Drain and run under cold water to stop the cooking process . Lay noodles on a clean towel and pat dry . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Pour a ladleful of Bolognese sauce and a ladleful of white sauce over the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish ; top with 3 or 4 lasagna noodles . Cover noodles with 1/3 of the white sauce and 1/3 of the Bolognese sauce . Sprinkle some of the Parmesan cheese on top ; cover with lasagna noodles . Repeat layers , ending with white sauce and Parmesan cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until bubbling and top is golden brown , 30 to 40 minutes . Let stand 3 to 4 minutes before slicing . 
4 large skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , peeled 1 teaspoon chopped fresh ginger 4 bay leaves 1/3 cup dry white wine 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 2 tablespoons honey 1/2 cup orange juice 1/4 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons toasted pine nuts  | Coat chicken with flour . Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium-high heat ; cook chicken with garlic , ginger , and bay leaves until chicken is browned , about 5 minutes per side . Mix wine , vinegar , and honey together in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook and stir until sauce is reduced by half , about 5 minutes . Add orange juice , lemon juice , salt , black pepper , and cayenne pepper and continue cooking until sauce is reduced by 2/3 , about 10 minutes . Strain reduction sauce . Pour strained reduction sauce over chicken ; add pine nuts and simmer over medium heat until chicken is no longer pink in the center , about 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . 
1 cup cassava flour (such as Amafil®) 1 cup potato starch 1 pinch stevia powder 6 tablespoons coconut milk 5 tablespoons coconut oil 4 egg yolks 2 tablespoons brandy-based orange liqueur (such as Grand Marnier®) 1 tablespoon honey 2 tablespoons peach jam 1 tablespoon colored sprinkles  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Combine cassava flour , potato starch , and stevia powder in a bowl ; add coconut milk , coconut oil , egg yolks , orange liqueur , and honey and knead until dough is well mixed . Roll dough on a work surface using a rolling pin until 1/4-inch thick . Cut egg-shaped cookies using an egg-shaped cookie cutter . Place egg-shaped cookies on a baking sheet . Spread jam over each cookie and top with sprinkles . Bake in the preheated oven until edges start to become lightly browned , about 25 minutes . Cool completely . 
Bechamel Sauce : 1/4 cup butter 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 3 1/3 cups milk 1 pinch ground nutmeg 1 pinch salt Lasagna : 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 clove garlic , crushed 1 pound fresh artichoke hearts , thinly sliced 1/2 cup white wine 1 teaspoon dried dill salt and ground black pepper to taste 7 ounces pancetta (Italian bacon) , cubed 12 lasagna noodles 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Melt butter in a saucepan over medium-low heat . Whisk in flour and cook until a golden paste forms , about 5 minutes . Whisk in milk gradually until bechamel sauce is thick and smooth , about 5 minutes . Remove from heat ; season with nutmeg and salt . Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir garlic until golden , 1 to 2 minutes . Stir in artichokes until coated with oil , about 5 minutes . Increase heat , pour in white wine , and simmer until evaporated , 2 to 3 minutes . Reduce heat to medium and cook until artichokes are tender , about 15 minutes . Season with dill , salt , and pepper . Remove from heat . Cook and stir pancetta in a large skillet over medium-high heat until crispy , about 10 minutes . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook lasagna noodles in the boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite , about 6 minutes . Drain and rinse with cold water . Pat dry with paper towels . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Spread 2 ladlefuls of bechamel sauce in the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish . Arrange 3 lasagna noodles over sauce ; cover with another ladleful of sauce . Top with 1/3 of the artichoke mixture and 1/3 of the pancetta . Cover with 1/4 of the Parmesan cheese . Repeat layers three more times , ending with bechamel sauce and Parmesan cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until bubbling , about 25 minutes . Broil until top is golden brown , about 5 minutes . Let stand for 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (12 ounce) package Italian sausage , casings removed 2 (8 ounce) packages grated Parmesan cheese 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 1 1/2 cups ricotta cheese 4 eggs 1 (3 ounce) package prosciutto , chopped 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 2 (9 inch) prepared pie crusts  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Cook and stir sausage in a large skillet over medium heat until browned , 5 to 8 minutes . Drain . Mix Parmesan cheese , mozzarella cheese , ricotta cheese , and eggs together in a bowl . Stir in sausage , prosciutto , and parsley . Roll 1 pie crust into an 11-inch circle on a lightly floured work surface . Transfer to a pie plate , leaving a 1/2-inch overhang . Pierce crust all over with a fork . Spread cheese and sausage mixture over crust . Roll second pie crust into a 12-inch circle ; place on top . Seal and flute edges . Cut several slits in the top crust to permit steam to escape . Bake in the preheated oven until center is set and crust is browned , about 1 hour . 
4 veal shanks , sliced for ossobuco 1 dash all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon butter , or to taste 1 tablespoon olive oil , or to taste 1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 tablespoon chopped carrot 1/2 cup white wine 1 tablespoon tomato puree salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 cup beef stock 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1/2 lemon , zested  | Slit the skin around the veal shanks in 2 or 3 places so that slices do not curl when cooked . Dust veal shanks with flour . Heat butter and olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add onion and carrot ; cook and stir until softened , about 5 minutes . Add veal shanks ; cook until browned , 3 to 5 minutes per side . Pour in white wine and simmer until reduced , about 5 minutes . Stir tomato puree , salt , and pepper into the skillet . Pour in beef stock gradually , stirring between each addition . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and cook , turning veal shanks occasionally , until tender , about 55 minutes . Mix parsley and lemon zest together in a small bowl . Stir into the skillet . Cook until flavors combine , about 5 minutes . 
2 cups all-purpose flour 1 pinch salt 1/2 cup water 7 tablespoons lard  | Mix flour and salt together in a large bowl . Mix in water a little at a time . Rub in lard until dough comes together in a ball . Transfer dough to a lightly floured work surface ; knead until smooth and elastic , about 10 minutes . Divide the dough into 6 pieces ; roll out each piece to 1/16-inch thickness . Heat a dry , heavy skillet or flat griddle over medium-high heat . Cook each piece until golden brown , about 2 minutes per side . 
1 (12 ounce) package bow tie pasta 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 pound sweet Italian sausage , casings removed and crumbled 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 cup diced onion 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 (28 ounce) can Italian-style plum tomatoes , drained and coarsely chopped 1 1/2 cups heavy cream 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons minced fresh parsley  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook pasta in boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . Heat oil in a large , deep skillet over medium heat . Cook sausage and pepper flakes until sausage is evenly brown . Stir in onion and garlic , and cook until onion is tender . Stir in tomatoes , cream , and salt . Simmer until mixture thickens , 8 to 10 minutes . Stir cooked pasta into sauce , and heat through . Sprinkle with parsley . 
2 slices prosciutto 2 slices fontina cheese 4 slices thinly sliced sandwich bread 1/4 cup chopped giardiniera (pickled Italian vegetables) 2 hot pickled peppers (optional)  | Heat a panino press according to the manufacturer's instructions . Place 1 slice prosciutto and 1 slice fontina cheese onto a slice of bread ; repeat with remaining prosciutto , fontina cheese , and slice of bread . Add 1/2 of the giardiniera on top of each cheese layer and top sandwiches with remaining bread slices , creating 2 sandwiches . Cook each panino in the press until the cheese has melted and the bread has toasted , about 3 minutes . Serve with hot pickled peppers on the side . 
1 cup warm water (95 to 110 degrees F/35 to 43 degrees C) 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 2 tablespoons shortening 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning 3 cups all-purpose flour  | Combine warm water and yeast in a small bowl ; stir until yeast is dissolved . Let stand until yeast forms a creamy foam , about 10 minutes . Pour yeast mixture into a large bowl ; add shortening , salt , sugar , and Italian seasoning . Stir in flour by hand until dough comes together . Turn dough out on a floured work surface and knead until smooth , 5 to 8 minutes . Transfer to a large greased bowl . Cover with a moist towel and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size , about 45 minutes . Punch dough down gently . Let stand for 3 to 5 minutes for air to release . Roll into a ball ; spread and stretch over the bottom of a pizza pan . Let rise for 15 minutes before topping and baking . 
3 1/2 cups white bread flour 1/2 cup whole wheat bread flour 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/4 teaspoon active dry yeast 2 cups water 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 tablespoons cornmeal  | Place white and wheat flour in a large bowl . Add salt , yeast , and water . Mix until a wet sticky dough comes together , about 5 minutes . Scrape down sides of bowl . Cover with foil . Allow dough to rise for 18 hours at room temperature . It should not be too warm . Punch dough down with a spatula and fold it over a few times . Lightly oil a heavy rimmed baking sheet with vegetable oil . Sprinkle generously with cornmeal . Lightly spray a work surface with water . Place a long sheet of plastic wrap on the damp surface to hold it in place . Sprinkle plastic wrap with flour . Scrape the dough onto the floured surface . Sprinkle flour on top of the dough . Gently stretch and pull dough into a long , flat rectangular shape , 12 to 15 inches long . Bring plastic sheet to edge of prepared pan and flip the dough into the prepared pan . Reshape the dough , if necessary . Dust with flour . Cover with a light dry towel . Let rise about 2 hours . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Bake dough in preheated oven until loaf is nicely browned , 35 to 45 minutes . 
10 bunches fresh spinach , trimmed 2 tablespoons water salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 1/4 cups ricotta cheese 1 1/4 cups grated Parmesan cheese 1 egg 1 pinch nutmeg 2 pounds fresh spinach pasta dough 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour , or as needed  | Place spinach , water , and a pinch of salt in a pot over medium-high heat ; cover pot and cook until spinach is completely wilted , 2 to 3 minutes . Drain and squeeze out all the water ; let spinach cool to room temperature in a colander . Soften ricotta cheese in a large bowl using a fork until creamy . Finely chop cooled spinach with a knife or process in a blender . Squeeze out any excess water and transfer to the bowl with ricotta . Add Parmesan cheese , egg , nutmeg , salt , and pepper ; mix well . Divide pasta dough into 6 equal pieces . Take 1 piece and cover the rest with plastic wrap . Flatten the piece between your palms and press through the widest setting of your pasta machine . Sprinkle flour over flattened pasta dough , fold in half lengthwise , and run through the pasta machine again . Repeat this process 3 or 4 times , always flouring , folding , and passing through the widest setting until dough is smooth and even in size . Change pasta machine to the middle setting and pass dough through . Move pasta machine setting to the next to the last setting and pass dough through . Cut the sheet in half , widthwise . Pass each half through the pasta machine in the thinnest and last setting , creating 2 long and very thin sheets ; gently transfer to a floured work surface , trimming edges . Cut into 2 even rectangles . Cut dough into 1 1/2-inch squares . Drop a teaspoon of ricotta filling in the middle of each square . Brush the edges with water and fold over diagonally into a triangle shape . Press well to squeeze out any air . Stretch the 2 ends of the triangle and a fold them together , wrapping them around your finger ; seal . Gently fold back the top corner . Transfer the tortellini to a floured plate or work surface . Proceed the same way with remaining dough and filling . Let tortellini stand for 30 minutes . Bring a pot of generously salted water to a boil ; cook tortellini , working in batches , until they float , 6 to 7 minutes . 
cooking spray 28 ounces pizza dough 1/2 pound smoked ham , thinly sliced 1/2 pound Genoa salami , thinly sliced 1/2 pound pepperoni , thinly sliced 1/2 pound shredded mozzarella cheese 1/2 pound white Cheddar cheese , sliced 1/2 cup sliced bell pepper rings 2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon water  | Spray a jelly roll pan with cooking spray . Cut pizza dough in half and roll each half into an 1/8-inch-thick rectangle . Arrange ham in 1 layer on each rectangle , leaving a 1-inch border . Layer salami , pepperoni , mozzarella cheese , white Cheddar cheese , and bell pepper rings , in that order , over the ham . Roll dough around the toppings , starting with the long side . Stop halfway to tuck in ends ; continue rolling . Place each stromboli on the prepared jelly roll pan . Whisk egg yolks and water together in a bowl ; brush over stromboli . Cut diagonal slashes 3 inches apart in the top of each stromboli . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Allow stromboli to proof in a warm place while the oven heats up . Bake stromboli until golden brown , 20 to 30 minutes . Cool on a rack before slicing . 
3/4 cup vegetable oil 4 yellow onions , cut into matchstick-size pieces 1 1/2 cups minced garlic 1 cup butter 2 1/2 cups warm water 1/2 cup olive oil 6 1/2 cups bread flour 1/2 cup white sugar 1 1/2 tablespoons active dry yeast 1 tablespoon coarse kosher salt 3/4 cup minced fresh parsley 1 1/2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary 1/2 teaspoon dried marjoram 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour , or as needed (optional) 1 1/2 cups crumbled blue cheese 1 tablespoon vegetable oil , or as needed 2 tablespoons water , or as needed  | Heat 3/4 cup vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir onions until golden brown and very tender , 20 to 30 minutes . Add garlic and butter ; cook and stir until butter is melted and garlic is fragrant , 5 to 10 minutes . Remove skillet from heat and cool onion mixture to room temperature . Combine warm water and olive oil in the bowl of a stand mixer . Combine bread flour , white sugar , yeast , and kosher salt in a bowl ; sift into the bowl with oil and water . Attach dough hook to mixer ; add parsley , rosemary , and marjoram and mix on medium speed until dough holds together and is no longer sticky , 5 to 8 minutes . Turn dough onto a floured work surface and knead , adding flour if needed , until dough becomes somewhat firm . Divide dough into six 10-ounce portions . Roll each portion of dough into a 12-inch rectangle , dusting with flour if sticky . Fill each rectangle with equal quantities onion mixture and 1/4 cup blue cheese . Roll each rectangle into an oval baguette-shape stromboli , pinching the edges to close . Grease 2 baking sheets with 1 tablespoon vegetable oil . Generously brush the bottoms of each stromboli with water and transfer to the prepared baking sheets ; cover with plastic wrap . Allow stromboli to rise for 2 hours . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown , rotating the stromboli as needed for even browning , 45 minutes to 1 hour . 
cooking spray 3 cups shredded cooked chicken 3/4 cup crumbled blue cheese 1/3 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1/4 cup hot sauce , or more as needed 1 (10 ounce) container refrigerated thin crust pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Spray a baking sheet with cooking spray . Mix chicken , blue cheese , cream cheese , and hot sauce together in a bowl . Unroll pizza dough onto the baking sheet and spread chicken mixture in a line down the center of the dough . Wrap dough around chicken mixture , tucking and pinching the seams together . Bake in the preheated oven until crust is golden brown , 15 to 20 minutes . Let stromboli cool for a few minutes before slicing . 
Spice Rub : 1/2 teaspoon whole fennel seeds 3 cloves garlic , sliced 1 tablespoon finely sliced sage leaves 2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper 2 teaspoons chopped rosemary 1 teaspoon kosher salt , or more to taste 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 lemon , zested 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 (1 1/2 pound) boneless pork tenderloin 8 strips bacon  | Crush fennel seeds in mortar with a pestle for 1 minute . Add garlic , sage , pepper , rosemary , salt , red pepper flakes , and lemon zest ; pound into a thick paste , 2 or 3 minutes . Add olive oil and pound until rub is evenly incorporated . Cut a slit 3/4 of the way through the center of the tenderloin , leaving 1 inch on each end uncut . Spread 1 tablespoon of the rub inside the slit ; close up roast . Spread the remaining rub evenly over the roast . Wrap bacon strips around the roast , trying to keep seams on the bottom . Wrap roast in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil ; place roast in the center . Roast in the preheated oven until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center registers 134 degrees F (57 degrees C) , about 25 minutes . Let roast rest for 10 minutes and internal temperature rise to 140 to 145 degrees F (60 to 63 degrees C) . 
1 pound bow-tie pasta 1 bunch fresh asparagus , cut into 1-inch pieces 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/4 cups sliced fresh mushrooms 1 red bell pepper , sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 cooked rotisserie chicken , shredded 2 (14 ounce) cans artichoke hearts , drained 1/3 cup pesto , or to taste 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons chicken broth , or as needed (optional) 1 cup shredded Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook bow-tie pasta at a boil , stirring occasionally , about 9 minutes . Add asparagus and cook until pasta is tender yet firm to the bite , about 3 minutes more ; drain . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir mushrooms , red bell pepper , and garlic until tender , 5 to 10 minutes . Reduce heat and stir in chicken , artichoke hearts , pesto , salt , and red pepper flakes ; cook and stir until heated through , about 5 minutes . Mix pasta and asparagus into chicken mixture , adding chicken broth if some moisture is needed . Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the top . 
1/2 cup oil and vinegar dressing , divided 4 skinless , boneless chicken breasts salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 pint grape tomatoes , halved 1 bunch fresh basil , thinly sliced 1 (8 ounce) package fresh mozzarella cheese , sliced  | Pour 1/4 cup dressing into a small bowl . Arrange chicken breasts evenly in the center of a grill pan . Brush both sides of the chicken breasts with dressing ; season with salt and pepper . Pour remaining 1/4 cup dressing into a mixing bowl . Add tomatoes and basil . Toss to coat evenly with the dressing . Spread the tomato mixture evenly around chicken in a single layer . Bake in the Panasonic(R) Countertop Induction Oven using the "Auto Cook" Poultry with Vegetables setting until juices run clear , about 15 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the chicken should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Remove grill pan and top chicken with the fresh mozzarella cheese . Continue baking until mozzarella cheese is golden brown and bubbly , about 10 minutes . 
3 eggplant , peeled and thinly sliced 2 eggs , beaten 4 cups Italian seasoned bread crumbs 6 cups spaghetti sauce , divided 1 (16 ounce) package mozzarella cheese , shredded and divided 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese , divided 1/2 teaspoon dried basil  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Dip eggplant slices in egg , then in bread crumbs . Place in a single layer on a baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven for 5 minutes on each side . In a 9x13 inch baking dish spread spaghetti sauce to cover the bottom . Place a layer of eggplant slices in the sauce . Sprinkle with mozzarella and Parmesan cheeses . Repeat with remaining ingredients , ending with the cheeses . Sprinkle basil on top . Bake in preheated oven for 35 minutes , or until golden brown . 
3 cups milk 1 teaspoon kosher salt , or to taste 1 1/4 cups semolina flour 1 3/4 ounces freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 2 large egg yolks 3 tablespoons cold unsalted butter , cut into small cubes 3 tablespoons melted butter 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese , or more to cover  | Line a rimmed sheet pan with plastic wrap . Place milk and salt in a saucepan . Bring almost to a simmer over medium-high heat . As soon as bubbles start to break the surface of the milk , gradually whisk in the semolina . Whisk until semolina becomes thick , about 20 seconds . Reduce heat to medium-low ; continue stirring with a wooden spoon until very thick , 7 to 10 minutes . Remove from heat . Add butter , grated cheese , and egg yolks . Stir quickly to prevent the yolks from cooking . Transfer mixture to prepared pan and spread out evenly . Cover with another piece of plastic wrap . Refrigerate until firm enough to cut , about 30 minutes . Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Brush a round , shallow baking dish with butter . Using a round 2 3/4-inch cookie cutter , cut out circles of the semolina dough . Arrange in a circular overlapping pattern in the prepared baking dish . With your damp hands , form the scraps of dough into a small ball . Flatten and place between 2 pieces of plastic wrap to flatten to the same thickness of the other dough . Cut out a few more rounds and arrange in center of circle . Drizzle melted butter over gnocchi and brush it over them evenly . Sprinkle with a pinch of cayenne pepper and a generous dusting of grated cheese . Bake in preheated oven until golden brown , about 25 minutes . 
8 cups beef stock 1 1/2 cups orzo pasta 2 (14.5 ounce) cans fire-roasted diced tomatoes with juice 2 (10.75 ounce) cans tomato soup 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans , rinsed and drained 5 teaspoons chicken bouillon powder 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes , or to taste 1 bunch kale , chopped  | Bring beef stock to a boil in a stockpot ; add orzo and cook for 5 minutes . Mix in fire-roasted tomatoes , tomato soup , kidney beans , cannellini beans , chicken bouillon , and red pepper flakes into orzo ; return to a boil . Reduce heat and simmer , stirring occasionally , for 1 1/2 hours . Mix kale into soup and simmer for 30 minutes more . 
1 fluid ounce Montenegro amaro liqueur 1 fluid ounce freshly squeezed grapefruit juice 5 fluid ounces lager beer , chilled  | Mix amaro and grapefruit juice together in a chilled Collins glass ; top with beer . 
1 box Barilla® Pronto™ Spaghetti 1 cup chicken broth 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup Barilla® Tomato & Basil Sauce 2 teaspoons oregano , dried 1/2 cup mozzarella cheese , shaved 1 1/2 cups rotisserie chicken , shredded 1/2 cup Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , shaved Salt and black pepper to taste  | POUR whole box of pasta into a large skillet (approximately 12 inches in diameter) . POUR 1 1/2 cups of cold water and chicken broth into the pan , ensuring that the liquid covers the pasta . Turn the burner to high , then set your timer for 10 minutes (optional : add a bit of salt to taste) . COOK on high , stirring occasionally , until 3/4 of the liquid has evaporated . ADD Barilla(R) Tomato & Basil sauce , oregano , mozzarella , and rotisserie chicken to skillet and continue to COOK for approximately 2 minutes . REMOVE skillet from heat and STIR Parmigiano-Reggiano and black pepper . Serve immediately . 
1 box Barilla® Pronto™ Rotini 1/2 tablespoon dry mustard 1 cup heavy cream 1 1/2 cups sharp Cheddar cheese , shredded 3/4 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese , grated 2 tablespoons parsley , chopped Salt and black pepper to taste  | POUR whole box of pasta into a large skillet (approximately 12 inches in diameter) . POUR 3 cups of cold water into the pan , ensuring that the water covers the pasta . Turn the burner to high , then set your timer for 10 minutes (optional : add a bit of salt to taste) . COOK on high , stirring occasionally , until almost all of the liquid has evaporated . ADD dry mustard and cream and bring to a simmer then , REMOVE the skillet from heat and gently FOLD in the sharp cheddar , Parmigiano and parsley . Serve immediately . 
1 box Barilla® Pronto™ Penne 1 (4 ounce) can mushrooms , quartered 1 cup arugula , packed 1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese , grated Salt and black pepper to taste  | POUR whole box of pasta into a large skillet (approximately 12 inches in diameter) . POUR 3 cups of cold water into the pan , ensuring that the water covers the pasta . ADD mushrooms and turn the burner to high , then set your timer for 10 minutes (optional : add a bit of salt to taste) . COOK on high , stirring occasionally , until almost all of the liquid has evaporated . When desired pasta texture is reached , REMOVE from heat and STIR in arugula and cheese . Serve immediately . 
1 box Barilla® Pronto™ Penne 3 cups water 10 frozen meatballs 1 cup Barilla® Marinara sauce 1/2 cup prepared BBQ sauce Salt and black pepper to taste 1/4 cup green onions , sliced 1/2 cup Cheddar cheese , grated 1/2 cup cilantro  | POUR whole box of pasta into a large skillet (approximately 12 inches in diameter) . POUR 3 cups of cold water into the pan ensuring that the water covers the pasta . Turn the burner to high and set your timer to 10 minutes (optional : add a bit of salt to taste) . After 5 minutes add meatballs and STIR to combine . With about 1 minute left , ADD both sauces and SEASON with salt and pepper , FOLD to combine . REMOVE the skillet from the heat and TOP with onions , cheese and cilantro . Serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon minced fresh sage , divided 2 teaspoons salt , divided 1 teaspoon ground black pepper , divided 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 pounds sliced baby bella mushrooms 1 large onion , diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 cups pumpkin puree , divided 1 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream , divided 1 1/2 cups grated Parmesan cheese cooking spray 12 lasagna noodles 1 cup ricotta cheese 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 1 dash ground nutmeg 1 dash ground cloves 2 tablespoons butter , cut in small pieces  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Mix sage , salt , black pepper , 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg , and 1/2 teaspoon cloves together in a small bowl to make a spice blend . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add mushrooms , onion , garlic , and 1/2 of the spice blend ; cook and stir until mushrooms are tender and all moisture has evaporated , about 5 minutes . Combine 2 cups pumpkin puree , 3/4 cup heavy cream , 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese , and remaining spice blend in a bowl . Grease a 9x13-inch baking pan with cooking spray . Arrange 4 lasagna noodles in the bottom so they slightly overlap . Cover with 1/2 of the pumpkin mixture and 1/2 of the mushroom mixture . Dot with 1/2 cup ricotta ; sprinkle 1/2 cup mozzarella cheese on top . Repeat layers once more . Place remaining 4 noodles on top . Combine remaining 1 cup pumpkin puree , remaining 3/4 cup heavy cream , 1 dash nutmeg , and 1 dash cloves . Spread on top of noodles . Sprinkle remaining 1 cup Parmesan cheese on top . Dot with butter . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes . Uncover and bake until bubbly , about 15 minutes more . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 12 ounces sweet bulk Italian sausage 1 stalk celery , diced 1/2 yellow onion , chopped 3/4 cup dry elbow macaroni 1/4 cup tomato paste 3 cups chicken broth , or more as needed , divided Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes , or to taste 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 3 cups chopped Swiss chard 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini (white kidney) beans , drained 1/4 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese , plus additional for serving , or to taste  | Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high sausage . Brown sausage while breaking it into small pieces , about 5 minutes . Reduce heat to medium . Add diced celery and chopped onion . Cook until onions are translucent , 4 to 5 minutes . Add dry pasta . Cook and stir 2 minutes . Stir in tomato paste until evenly distributed , 2 to 3 minutes . Add 3 cups broth . Raise heat to high and bring to a simmer . Add salt , black pepper , pepper flakes , and oregano . When soup comes to a boil , reduce heat to medium and let it simmer about 5 minutes , stirring often . Check soup consistency and add more broth , if needed . Place chopped chard in a bowl . Cover with cold water and rinse the leaves ; any grit will fall to the bottom of the bowl . Transfer chard to colander to drain briefly ; add to soup . Cook and stir until leaves wilt , 2 to 3 minutes . Stir in white beans ; continue cooking and stirring until pasta is perfectly cooked , another 4 or 5 minutes . Remove from heat and stir in grated cheese . Serve topped with grated cheese , if desired . 
5 cups finely chopped roasted almonds 2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder 4 eggs 1 (1 ounce) bottle almond extract , or to taste 1/4 cup white sugar 45 whole almonds  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper . Mix chopped almonds , 2 cups white sugar , and cocoa powder together in a bowl ; add eggs and almond extract and stir until batter is well mixed . Form teaspoonfuls of batter into small balls . Place 1/4 cup sugar in a bowl and roll balls in the sugar . Press a finger into the center of each ball , making an indentation . Place 1 almond in each indentation . Arrange cookies 2 inches apart on the baking sheets . Bake in the preheated oven until edges begin to crisp , about 15 minutes . 
6 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped 1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes , packed in oil 3 cloves minced garlic 1/4 cup olive oil 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1/4 cup fresh basil , stems removed 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 French baguette 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese  | Preheat the oven on broiler setting . In a large bowl , combine the roma tomatoes , sun-dried tomatoes , garlic , olive oil , vinegar , basil , salt , and pepper . Allow the mixture to sit for 10 minutes . Cut the baguette into 3/4-inch slices . On a baking sheet , arrange the baguette slices in a single layer . Broil for 1 to 2 minutes , until slightly brown . Divide the tomato mixture evenly over the baguette slices . Top the slices with mozzarella cheese . Broil for 5 minutes , or until the cheese is melted . 
5 very cold egg whites 2 1/2 cups white sugar 5 teaspoons almond extract 4 1/2 cups almond meal 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar , or as needed  | Beat egg whites with an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment until foamy . Gradually add sugar and almond extract , continuing to beat until very stiff peaks form . Switch to the paddle attachment and mix in almond meal until dough comes together . Cover cookie dough with plastic wrap and refrigerate , 3 hours to overnight . Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) . Line baking sheets with parchment paper . Pour confectioners' sugar into a shallow bowl . Roll cookie dough into small balls and coat with confectioners' sugar . Arrange on the baking sheets . Bake cookies in the preheated oven until lightly browned and firm , 10 to 15 minutes . 
1 ounce dried porcini mushrooms 1 cup hot water 1 (32 ounce) carton beef stock 1/4 cup olive oil , divided 3 cloves garlic 1 teaspoon dried rosemary salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 cup white wine , divided 1/4 cup butter , divided 1 shallot , chopped 1 3/4 cups Arborio rice 1/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Place porcini mushrooms in a bowl and cover with hot water . Let soak until soft , about 1 hour . Drain , reserving soaking liquid . Squeeze mushrooms to remove excess water and roughly chop . Bring beef stock to a boil in a saucepan . Reduce heat to low and cover to keep warm . Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a skillet over medium heat . Add garlic cloves ; cook until fragrant , about 2 minutes . Add mushrooms ; cook and stir until soft , 5 to 6 minutes . Season with rosemary , salt , and pepper . Discard garlic cloves ; pour in 1/2 cup wine . Increase heat to medium-high and simmer until wine reduces , 3 to 5 minutes . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil with 2 tablespoons butter in a saucepan over medium-low heat . Cook and stir shallot until soft , about 3 minutes . Cook and stir Arborio rice until toasted and fragrant , about 3 minutes . Pour in remaining 1/2 cup wine . Simmer until wine is absorbed , about 3 minutes . Ladle 1/3 of the warm stock into the saucepan ; cook and stir until absorbed . Ladle in remaining stock and reserved soaking liquid in small amounts and cook , stirring constantly , until risotto is tender and creamy , 15 to 18 minutes . Remove risotto from the heat ; stir in remaining 2 tablespoons butter and Parmesan cheese . Let stand for 3 to 5 minutes before serving . 
1 butternut squash - peeled , seeded , and cut into 1-inch cubes 1 large onion , coarsely chopped 1 cup whole cashews 1 tablespoon olive oil , or as needed salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/4 cup butter 12 fresh sage leaves , cut in half 2 cloves garlic , cut into slivers , or more to taste 8 ounces whole-wheat spaghetti 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Combine butternut squash , onion , cashews in a large baking dish or on a baking sheet . Add olive oil , salt , and pepper ; toss to coat . Spread into a single layer . Bake in the preheated oven until squash is browned and tender , about 30 minutes . Melt butter in a skillet over medium heat ; cook and stir sage and garlic until sage is wilted , about 2 minutes . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook spaghetti in the boiling water , stirring occasionally , until tender yet firm to the bite , about 12 minutes . Drain and return spaghetti to the pot . Stir sage-butter mixture into spaghetti until coated ; carefully fold in roasted squash mixture and Parmesan cheese . 
1 pound petite potatoes , quartered 8 white mushrooms , sliced 1/4 yellow onion , diced 1/2 red bell pepper , diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil sea salt and ground black pepper to taste 3 slices prosciutto 4 fresh basil leaves , chopped 2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with non-stick aluminum foil . Combine potatoes , mushrooms , onion , red bell pepper , garlic , olive oil , salt , and pepper in a large bowl until evenly coated . Spread potato mixture onto the prepared baking sheet . Roast in the preheated oven for 15 minutes . Remove baking sheet from oven , stir potato mixture , and continue roasting until potatoes are crisp , about 20 minutes more . Place prosciutto in a skillet over medium-high heat ; cook and stir until slightly crisp , 3 to 4 minutes . Transfer prosciutto to a cutting board and chop . Top potato mixture with prosciutto , basil , parsley , and Parmesan cheese . 
3 tablespoons butter 2 ripe pears - peeled , cored , and cubed 3 sprigs fresh thyme 7 ounces Gorgonzola cheese , crumbled 1 pound fresh pasta dough  | Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Add pears and thyme ; cook , stirring often , until pears have softened , about 10 minutes . Crumble Gorgonzola cheese over pears ; cook and stir until melted , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove skillet from heat and cool filling completely . Cut pasta dough into 3 equal pieces . Flatten the first piece of dough on a floured work surface ; roll with a rolling pin 5 or 6 times . Turn the dough 45 degrees and roll again , 5 to 6 times . Keep rolling and turning in the same direction until dough has a consistent thickness of about 1/16-inch . Repeat with remaining 2 pieces of pasta dough . Gently transfer 1 pasta sheet to a floured surface and cut in half to form 2 evenly sized rectangles . Drop about 1 teaspoon filling onto 1 rectangle , spacing the filling about 1-inch apart . Brush the spaces around the filling with water . Lay the second rectangle on top of the first . Gently squeeze out the air around the filling and press firmly with your hands to seal the edges and all dough around the filling . Cut square ravioli shapes using a ravioli cutter . Transfer the ravioli to a floured plate or board . Repeat with the remaining dough and filling . Let the ravioli stand for about 30 minutes . Bring a saucepan of lightly salted water to the boil ; gently add ravioli , working in batches . Cook until ravioli float to the top , about 3 minutes . Remove using a slotted spoon and transfer to a warm bowl . 
3 pounds boneless pork shoulder (Boston Butt) roast , cut into chunks kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 cup low-sodium chicken broth 4 cloves garlic , minced , or more to taste 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 2 bay leaves 1 (28 ounce) can petite diced tomatoes 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste , or more to taste 8 ounces shiitake mushrooms , sliced  | Season pork with kosher salt and pepper . Heat a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat ; add oil . Stir pork into the hot oil and cooking , turning often with tongs , until pork is evenly browned , 10 to 12 minutes . Pour chicken broth over the pork and scrape any brown bits of food off the bottom of the Dutch oven using a wooden spoon ; stir in garlic , Italian seasoning , and bay leaves . Mix tomatoes and tomato paste into pork mixture , stirring and pressing paste along the side of the Dutch oven to help dissolve it . Reduce heat to medium-low . Stir , cover , and cook for 2 1/2 hours . Remove Dutch oven from heat and shred pork into the tomato sauce using 2 forks . Add mushrooms ; cover and simmer for 1 hour more . Remove bay leaves . 
1/2 cup margarine 1/2 cup shortening 2 cups white sugar 5 eggs , separated 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 cup chopped pecans 1 (3.5 ounce) can flaked coconut Frosting : 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1/4 cup margarine , softened 1 pound confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour three 9-inch baking pans . Beat 1/2 cup margarine and shortening in a bowl with an electric mixer until creamy . Beat in sugar . Beat in egg yolks until smooth . Combine flour and baking soda in a bowl . Add to the margarine mixture in batches , alternating with buttermilk , until batter is smooth . Mix in 1 teaspoon vanilla extract ; add pecans and coconut . Beat egg whites with clean beaters in a glass , metal , or ceramic bowl until stiff peaks form . Fold into the batter . Pour into prepared pans . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean , 25 to 30 minutes . Cool in the pans for 10 minutes ; invert onto a cooling rack . Cool completely , about 30 minutes . Beat cream cheese and 1/4 cup margarine in a bowl until smooth ; stir in confectioners' sugar . Beat in 1 teaspoon vanilla extract until frosting is combined . Spread frosting onto the cooled cake layers . Stack cakes ; frost top and sides . 
3 cups water 1 1/2 cups long-grain rice 1 large carrot , diced 1/2 cup frozen peas salt to taste 3/4 cup cubed prosciutto cotto (cooked ham) 3/4 cup diced Swiss cheese 1/2 cup button mushrooms in oil , drained 1/3 cup canned corn , drained 1/3 cup sliced green olives 1/3 cup sliced black olives 1/3 cup diced pickle 1/3 cup sliced marinated artichoke hearts , drained 1 1/2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 teaspoon thyme 1 teaspoon oregano 1 (3 ounce) can tuna , drained 4 hard-boiled eggs , quartered  | Combine water , rice , carrot , peas , and salt in a saucepan . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat and simmer until rice is tender but still firm to the bite , about 14 minutes . Drain excess water ; let cool , 10 to 15 minutes . Mix prosciutto cotto , Swiss cheese , button mushrooms , corn , green olives , black olives , pickle , artichoke hearts , olive oil , thyme , and oregano together in a large bowl . Stir in cooled rice mixture . Fold tuna into the salad . Divide salad among 4 serving plates ; garnish with hard-boiled eggs . Chill before serving , at least 30 minutes . 
cooking spray 3 cups water 1 cup polenta salt to taste 1 cup mashed butternut squash 1/2 cup sour cream (optional) 1/2 cup grated Cheddar cheese (optional)  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 2-quart casserole dish with cooking spray . Pour water into the prepared dish ; stir in polenta and salt . Bake in the preheated oven until polenta is thickened , about 40 minutes . Stir in squash , sour cream , and Cheddar cheese . Continue baking until cheese is melted , about 10 minutes more . Let stand for 10 minutes before serving . 
Eggplant : 1 large eggplant , cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch slices 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup whole wheat flour 2 teaspoons garlic powder , divided 1 teaspoon onion powder , divided 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste 1/2 teaspoon salt , divided 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper , divided 2 eggs 1 cup panko bread crumbs 1/4 cup olive oil , divided Sauce : 2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 large onion , chopped 2 teaspoons minced garlic , or to taste 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (14.5 ounce) can petite diced tomatoes 1/2 (14.5 ounce) can chopped tomatoes 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 2 teaspoons dried oregano , or to taste 2 teaspoons dried basil , or to taste 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning , or to taste Filling : 1 (15 ounce) container low-fat ricotta cheese 1 (8 ounce) package fresh spinach 1 egg 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place eggplant slices in a large dish and cover with salted water . Let soak , about 15 minutes . Drain and cover with milk . Combine flour , 1 teaspoon garlic powder , 1/2 teaspoon onion powder , 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , 1/4 teaspoon salt , and 1/4 teaspoon pepper in a large resealable plastic bag . Beat eggs lightly in a shallow bowl that is long enough for the eggplant slices to fit in . Combine panko , remaining 1 teaspoon garlic powder , 1/2 teaspoon onion powder , 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , 1/4 teaspoon salt , and 1/4 teaspoon pepper in another large resealable plastic bag . Place 1 slice eggplant in flour mixture , shaking to coat . Dip in egg . Transfer to bag with panko mixture , shaking to coat . Repeat with remaining slices . Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large skillet . Cook coated eggplant slices in batches until golden brown and crisp , about 2 minutes per side . Transfer to a cooling rack . Repeat with remaining eggplant , adding oil as needed . Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large pot over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until onion softens , about 5 minutes . Stir in tomato sauce , diced tomatoes , chopped tomatoes , 2 teaspoons pepper , oregano , basil , 1 teaspoon salt , and poultry seasoning . Reduce heat to low and cover ; cook sauce , stirring occasionally , until flavors combine , 10 to 15 minutes . Mix ricotta cheese , spinach , egg , Parmesan cheese , 1 teaspoon garlic , nutmeg , salt , and pepper together gently in a bowl to make filling . Spread 2 to 3 tablespoons of filling over each eggplant slice . Roll slices into logs and arrange in a single layer in a 9x13-inch baking pan . Pour tomato sauce evenly on top . Bake in the preheated oven until sauce is bubbly , about 30 minutes . Let stand for 5 minutes before serving . 
1 pound Italian sausage 1 clove garlic , minced 2 (14 ounce) cans beef broth 1 (14.5 ounce) can Italian-style stewed tomatoes 1 cup sliced carrots 1 (14.5 ounce) can great Northern beans , undrained 2 small zucchini , cubed 2 cups spinach - packed , rinsed and torn 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon salt  | In a stockpot or Dutch oven , brown sausage with garlic . Stir in broth , tomatoes and carrots , and season with salt and pepper . Reduce heat , cover , and simmer 15 minutes . Stir in beans with liquid and zucchini . Cover , and simmer another 15 minutes , or until zucchini is tender . Remove from heat , and add spinach . Replace lid allowing the heat from the soup to cook the spinach leaves . Soup is ready to serve after 5 minutes . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 large eggplant , peeled and cut into 1-inch slices 3 eggs , divided 2 cups Italian bread crumbs 1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese 3/4 cup fresh spinach 1 1/2 tablespoons garlic powder , or to taste 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning , or to taste 1 (24 ounce) jar garlic and onion pasta sauce , or to taste 1 (16 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Beat 2 eggs in a bowl . Pour bread crumbs onto a plate . Dip sliced eggplant into beaten eggs ; coat with bread crumbs . Heat oil in a skillet over low heat . Increase heat to medium ; place eggplant in skillet . Cook until browned , about 4 minutes per side . Combine remaining egg , ricotta cheese , spinach , garlic powder , and Italian seasoning in a large bowl . Place eggplant slices in a single layer in a 9x13-inch casserole dish . Spoon 2 tablespoons of the ricotta mixture onto each eggplant slice ; top each slice with 2 tablespoons pasta sauce . Sprinkle shredded mozzarella over each eggplant slice ; cover with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and bubbly , about 30 minutes . 
1/2 cup butter 4 cloves garlic , minced 3/4 cup dry bread crumbs 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1/4 teaspoon dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon salt 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded thin  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat , and cook the garlic until tender , about 5 minutes . In a shallow bowl , mix the bread crumbs , Parmesan cheese , Cheddar cheese , parsley , oregano , pepper , and salt . Dip each chicken breast in the garlic butter to coat , then press into the bread crumb mixture . Arrange the coated chicken breasts in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Drizzle with any remaining butter and top with any remaining bread crumb mixture . Bake 30 minutes in the preheated oven , or until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon white sugar 1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)  | Combine flour , salt , sugar , and yeast in a large bowl . Mix in oil and warm water . Spread out on a large pizza pan . Top as desired . Bake at 375 degrees C (190 degrees C) for 20 to 25 minutes . 
6 cups chicken broth , divided 3 tablespoons olive oil , divided 1 pound portobello mushrooms , thinly sliced 1 pound white mushrooms , thinly sliced 2 shallots , diced 1 1/2 cups Arborio rice 1/2 cup dry white wine sea salt to taste freshly ground black pepper to taste 3 tablespoons finely chopped chives 4 tablespoons butter 1/3 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese  | In a saucepan , warm the broth over low heat . Warm 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat . Stir in the mushrooms , and cook until soft , about 3 minutes . Remove mushrooms and their liquid , and set aside . Add 1 tablespoon olive oil to skillet , and stir in the shallots . Cook 1 minute . Add rice , stirring to coat with oil , about 2 minutes . When the rice has taken on a pale , golden color , pour in wine , stirring constantly until the wine is fully absorbed . Add 1/2 cup broth to the rice , and stir until the broth is absorbed . Continue adding broth 1/2 cup at a time , stirring continuously , until the liquid is absorbed and the rice is al dente , about 15 to 20 minutes . Remove from heat , and stir in mushrooms with their liquid , butter , chives , and parmesan . Season with salt and pepper to taste . 
6 cups chicken broth salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons semolina flour 3 large eggs 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 ounce grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese 1/2 ounce grated pecorino Romano cheese 1 pinch cayenne pepper 1 pinch freshly grated nutmeg 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 pinch red pepper flakes  | Bring broth to a simmer in a pot over high heat . Taste broth and adjust salt and pepper as needed . Whisk eggs , parsley , semolina flour , grated Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino Romano cheeses , salt , pepper , cayenne pepper , and nutmeg together in a bowl until well blended . While stirring the simmering broth , slowly pour egg mixture into the broth . Bring mixture back up to a simmer . The liquid will be slightly cloudy initially and clear as broth heats . Serve in bowls ; garnish with a drizzle of olive oil and a pinch of red pepper flakes . 
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 6 fluid ounces warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 3 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon minced garlic 2 tablespoons honey 1 teaspoon anchovy paste (optional) 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon dried marjoram 1/4 teaspoon dried basil 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/8 teaspoon dried red pepper flakes salt to taste  | In a small bowl , combine tomato paste , water , Parmesan cheese , garlic , honey , anchovy paste , onion powder , oregano , marjoram , basil , ground black pepper , cayenne pepper , red pepper flakes and salt ; mix together , breaking up any clumps of cheese . Sauce should sit for 30 minutes to blend flavors ; spread over pizza dough and prepare pizza as desired . 
1 1/2 pounds lean ground beef 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil 1 teaspoon dried oregano 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 (29 ounce) can diced tomatoes 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 12 dry lasagna noodles 2 eggs , beaten 1 pint part-skim ricotta cheese 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons dried parsley 1 teaspoon salt 1 pound mozzarella cheese , shredded 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese  | In a skillet over medium heat , brown ground beef , onion and garlic ; drain fat . Mix in basil , oregano , brown sugar , 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , diced tomatoes and tomato paste . Simmer for 30 to 45 minutes , stirring occasionally . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add lasagna noodles , and cook for 5 to 8 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . Lay noodles flat on towels , and blot dry . In a medium bowl , mix together eggs , ricotta , Parmesan cheese , parsley and 1 teaspoon salt . Layer 1/3 of the lasagna noodles in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Cover noodles with 1/2 ricotta mixture , 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese and 1/3 of the sauce . Repeat . Top with remaining noodles and sauce . Sprinkle additional Parmesan cheese over the top . Bake in the preheated oven 30 minutes . Let stand 10 minutes before serving . 
1 tablespoon butter 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes , chopped 1 cup chicken broth , divided 1 cup heavy cream 1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves salt and pepper to taste 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil 8 ounces dry fettuccini pasta  | In a large saucepan over low heat , melt butter ; add garlic and cook for 30 seconds . Add the tomatoes and 3/4 cup of the chicken broth ; increase to medium heat and bring to a boil . Reduce heat and simmer , uncovered , for about 10 minutes or until the tomatoes are tender . Add the cream and bring to a boil ; stirring . Simmer over medium heat until the sauce is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon . Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper on both sides . In a large skillet over medium heat , warm oil and saute chicken . Press on chicken occasionally with a slotted spatula . Cook for about 4 minutes per side or until the meat feels springy and is no longer pink inside . Transfer to a board ; cover and keep warm . Discard the fat from the skillet . In the same skillet , over medium heat , bring 1/4 cup chicken broth to a boil ; stirring the pan juices . Reduce slightly and add to the cream sauce ; stir in basil and adjust seasonings to taste . Meanwhile , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add fettuccine and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain , transfer to a bowl and toss with 3 to 4 tablespoons of the sauce . Cut each chicken breast into 2 to 3 diagonal slices . Reheat the sauce gently if needed . Transfer the pasta to serving plates ; top with chicken and coat with the cream sauce ; serve . 
1 pound bulk mild Italian sausage 1 1/4 teaspoons crushed red pepper flakes 4 slices bacon , cut into 1/2 inch pieces 1 large onion , diced 1 tablespoon minced garlic 5 (13.75 ounce) cans chicken broth 6 potatoes , thinly sliced 1 cup heavy cream 1/4 bunch fresh spinach , tough stems removed  | Cook the Italian sausage and red pepper flakes in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat until crumbly , browned , and no longer pink , 10 to 15 minutes . Drain and set aside . Cook the bacon in the same Dutch oven over medium heat until crisp , about 10 minutes . Drain , leaving a few tablespoons of drippings with the bacon in the bottom of the Dutch oven . Stir in the onions and garlic ; cook until onions are soft and translucent , about 5 minutes . Pour the chicken broth into the Dutch oven with the bacon and onion mixture ; bring to a boil over high heat . Add the potatoes , and boil until fork tender , about 20 minutes . Reduce the heat to medium and stir in the heavy cream and the cooked sausage ; heat through . Mix the spinach into the soup just before serving . 
3 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon onion salt 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 bay leaf 1 (.7 ounce) package dry Italian-style salad dressing mix 1 (5 pound) rump roast  | Combine water with salt , ground black pepper , oregano , basil , onion salt , parsley , garlic powder , bay leaf , and salad dressing mix in a saucepan . Stir well , and bring to a boil . Place roast in slow cooker , and pour salad dressing mixture over the meat . Cover , and cook on Low for 10 to 12 hours , or on High for 4 to 5 hours . When done , remove bay leaf , and shred meat with a fork . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , chopped 2 onions , chopped 2 cups chopped celery 5 carrots , sliced 2 cups chicken broth 2 cups water 4 cups tomato sauce 1/2 cup red wine (optional) 1 cup canned kidney beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can green beans 2 cups baby spinach , rinsed 3 zucchinis , quartered and sliced 1 tablespoon chopped fresh oregano 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup seashell pasta 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese for topping 1 tablespoon olive oil  | In a large stock pot , over medium-low heat , heat olive oil and saute garlic for 2 to 3 minutes . Add onion and saute for 4 to 5 minutes . Add celery and carrots , saute for 1 to 2 minutes . Add chicken broth , water and tomato sauce , bring to boil , stirring frequently . If desired add red wine at this point . Reduce heat to low and add kidney beans , green beans , spinach leaves , zucchini , oregano , basil , salt and pepper . Simmer for 30 to 40 minutes , the longer the better . Fill a medium saucepan with water and bring to a boil . Add macaroni and cook until tender . Drain water and set aside . Once pasta is cooked and soup is heated through place 2 tablespoons cooked pasta into individual serving bowls . Ladle soup on top of pasta and sprinkle Parmesan cheese on top . Spray with olive oil and serve . 
1 pound sweet Italian sausage , casings removed 1 cup chopped onion 2 cloves garlic , minced 5 cups beef broth 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup red wine 4 large tomatoes - peeled , seeded and chopped 1 cup thinly sliced carrots 1/2 tablespoon packed fresh basil leaves 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups sliced zucchini 8 ounces fresh tortellini pasta 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley  | In a 5 quart Dutch oven , brown sausage . Remove sausage and drain , reserving 1 tablespoon of the drippings . Saute onions and garlic in drippings . Stir in beef broth , water , wine , tomatoes , carrots , basil , oregano , tomato sauce , and sausage . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat ; simmer uncovered for 30 minutes . Skim fat from the soup . Stir in zucchini and parsley . Simmer covered for 30 minutes . Add tortellini during the last 10 minutes . Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese on top of each serving . 
9 lasagna noodles 1/2 cup butter 1 onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 cups chicken broth 1 1/2 cups milk 4 cups shredded mozzarella cheese , divided 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese , divided 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 cups ricotta cheese 2 cups cubed , cooked chicken meat 2 (10 ounce) packages frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese for topping  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook lasagna noodles in boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes . Drain , and rinse with cold water . Melt the butter in a large saucepan over medium heat . Cook the onion and garlic in the butter until tender , stirring frequently . Stir in the flour and salt , and simmer until bubbly . Mix in the broth and milk , and boil , stirring constantly , for 1 minute . Stir in 2 cups mozzarella cheese and 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese . Season with the basil , oregano , and ground black pepper . Remove from heat , and set aside . Spread 1/3 of the sauce mixture in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Layer with 1/3 of the noodles , the ricotta , and the chicken . Arrange 1/3 of the noodles over the chicken , and layer with 1/3 of the sauce mixture , spinach , and the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese and 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese . Arrange remaining noodles over cheese , and spread remaining sauce evenly over noodles . Sprinkle with parsley and 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese . Bake 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven . 
2 tablespoons steak seasoning rub 1/2 cup balsamic vinegar 1/2 cup olive oil 2 pounds boneless pork loin roast  | Dissolve steak seasoning in balsamic vinegar , then stir in olive oil . Place pork into a resealable plastic bag and pour marinade overtop . Squeeze out air and seal bag ; marinate 2 hours to overnight . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place pork into a glass baking dish along with marinade . Bake in preheated oven , basting occasionally until the pork reaches an internal temperature of 145 degrees F (65 degrees C) , about 1 hour . Let the roast rest for 10 minutes before slicing and serving . 
3 eggs , lightly beaten 3 tablespoons milk 1 1/2 cups Italian seasoned bread crumbs 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons dried parsley 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 cloves garlic , peeled and chopped 4 pork chops  | Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (160 degrees C) . In a small bowl , beat together the eggs and milk . In a separate small bowl , mix the bread crumbs , Parmesan cheese , and parsley . Heat the olive oil in a large , oven-proof skillet over medium heat . Stir in the garlic , and cook until lightly browned . Remove garlic , reserving for other uses . Dip each pork chop into the egg mixture , then into the bread crumb mixture , coating evenly . Place coated pork chops in the skillet , and brown abut 5 minutes on each side . Place the skillet and pork chops in the preheated oven , and cook 25 minutes , or to an internal temperature of 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . 
Gnocchi : 1 (8 ounce) container ricotta cheese 2 eggs 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 cup all-purpose flour , or as needed Sauce : 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 dash crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 6 basil leaves , finely shredded Salt and pepper to taste 8 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese , cut into small chunks  | Stir together the ricotta cheese , eggs , Parmesan Cheese , salt , pepper , and garlic powder in a large bowl until evenly combined . Mix in 1 cup of flour . Add additional flour if needed to form a soft dough . Divide the dough into 3 or 4 pieces , and roll into 1/2-inch-thick ropes on a floured surface . Cut each rope into 1-inch pieces , and place on a lightly floured baking sheet . Place in the refrigerator until ready to use . Heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , and cook until softened and fragrant , about 1 minute . Pour in diced tomatoes and red pepper flakes ; bring to a simmer over medium-high heat , and cook for 10 minutes . Stir in shredded basil and season to taste with salt and pepper . While sauce is simmering , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil over high heat . Boil the gnocchi until they float to the surface , 1 to 2 minutes , then drain . To assemble the dish , stir the cubed mozzarella cheese into the sauce and allow the heat of the sauce to soften , but not melt the cheese . Place gnocchi into a serving bowl , and spoon sauce overtop . 
12 ounces penne pasta 1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 onion , diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 red bell pepper , diced 1/2 pound portobello mushrooms , diced 1 pound medium shrimp , peeled and deveined 1 (15 ounce) jar Alfredo sauce 1/2 cup grated Romano cheese 1/2 cup cream 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or more to taste Salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup chopped parsley  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , melt butter together with the olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Stir in onion , and cook until softened and translucent , about 2 minutes . Stir in garlic , red pepper , and mushroom ; cook over medium-high heat until soft , about 2 minutes more . Stir in the shrimp , and cook until firm and pink , then pour in Alfredo sauce , Romano cheese , and cream ; bring to a simmer stirring constantly until thickened , about 5 minutes . Season with cayenne , salt , and pepper to taste . Stir drained pasta into the sauce , and serve sprinkled with chopped parsley . 
1 (16 ounce) package cheese tortellini 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes with garlic and onion 1 cup chopped fresh spinach 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons dried basil 1 teaspoon minced garlic 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 3/4 cup milk 3/4 cup heavy cream 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of water to a boil . Add the tortellini , and cook until tender , about 10 minutes . While you get the tortellini going , combine the tomatoes , spinach , salt , pepper , basil and garlic in a large saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir until the mixture begins to bubble . In a medium bowl , whisk together the flour , milk and cream . Stir this mixture into the saucepan along with the Parmesan cheese . Heat through , then reduce heat to low , and simmer until thick , about 2 minutes . Drain the tortellini , but do not rinse , then pour them into the saucepan with the sauce . Stir to coat , and serve . 
2 (14.5 ounce) cans stewed tomatoes 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 4 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 clove garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 tablespoons olive oil 1/3 cup finely diced onion 1/2 cup white wine  | In a food processor place Italian tomatoes , tomato paste , chopped parsley , minced garlic , oregano , salt , and pepper . Blend until smooth . In a large skillet over medium heat saute the finely chopped onion in olive oil for 2 minutes . Add the blended tomato sauce and white wine . Simmer for 30 minutes , stirring occasionally . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 eggs 4 cups panko bread crumbs 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour , or more if needed 1 cup olive oil for frying 1/2 cup prepared tomato sauce 1/4 cup fresh mozzarella , cut into small cubes 1/4 cup chopped fresh basil 1/2 cup grated provolone cheese 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 tablespoon olive oil  | Preheat an oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place chicken breasts between two sheets of heavy plastic (resealable freezer bags work well) on a solid , level surface . Firmly pound chicken with the smooth side of a meat mallet to a thickness of 1/2-inch . Season chicken thoroughly with salt and pepper . Beat eggs in a shallow bowl and set aside . Mix bread crumbs and 1/2 cup Parmesan in a separate bowl , set aside . Place flour in a sifter or strainer ; sprinkle over chicken breasts , evenly coating both sides . Dip flour coated chicken breast in beaten eggs . Transfer breast to breadcrumb mixture , pressing the crumbs into both sides . Repeat for each breast . Set aside breaded chicken breasts for about 15 minutes . Heat 1 cup olive oil in a large skillet on medium-high heat until it begins to shimmer . Cook chicken until golden , about 2 minutes on each side . The chicken will finish cooking in the oven . Place chicken in a baking dish and top each breast with about 1/3 cup of tomato sauce . Layer each chicken breast with equal amounts of mozzarella cheese , fresh basil , and provolone cheese . Sprinkle 1 to 2 tablespoons of Parmesan cheese on top and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is browned and bubbly , and chicken breasts are no longer pink in the center , 15 to 20 minutes . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . 
CAKE : 1 (18.25 ounce) package moist white cake mix 1 teaspoon instant coffee powder 1/4 cup coffee 1 tablespoon coffee flavored liqueur FILLING : 1 (8 ounce) container mascarpone cheese 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar 2 tablespoons coffee flavored liqueur FROSTING : 2 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar 2 tablespoons coffee flavored liqueur GARNISH : 2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder 1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour 3 (9 inch) pans . Prepare the cake mix according to package directions . Divide two thirds of batter between 2 pans . Stir instant coffee into remaining batter ; pour into remaining pan . Bake in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes , or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean . Let cool in pan for 10 minutes , then turn out onto a wire rack and cool completely . In a measuring cup , combine brewed coffee and 1 tablespoon coffee liqueur ; set aside . To make the filling : In a small bowl , using an electric mixer set on low speed , combine mascarpone , 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur ; beat just until smooth . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate . To make the frosting : In a medium bowl , using an electric mixer set on medium-high speed , beat the cream , 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur until stiff . Fold 1/2 cup of cream mixture into filling mixture . To assemble the cake : Place one plain cake layer on a serving plate . Using a thin skewer , poke holes in cake , about 1 inch apart . Pour one third of reserved coffee mixture over cake , then spread with half of the filling mixture . Top with coffee-flavored cake layer ; poke holes in cake . Pour another third of the coffee mixture over the second layer and spread with the remaining filling . Top with remaining cake layer ; poke holes in cake . Pour remaining coffee mixture on top . Spread sides and top of cake with frosting . Place cocoa in a sieve and lightly dust top of cake . Garnish with chocolate curls . Refrigerate at least 30 minutes before serving . To make the chocolate curls , use a vegetable peeler and run it down the edge of the chocolate bar . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into cubes 6 tablespoons butter , divided 4 cloves garlic , minced , divided 1 tablespoon Italian seasoning 1 pound fettuccini pasta 1 onion , diced 1 (8 ounce) package sliced mushrooms 1/3 cup all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon salt 3/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 3 cups milk 1 cup half-and-half 3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 8 ounces shredded Colby-Monterey Jack cheese 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 1/2 cup sour cream  | In a large skillet over medium heat combine chicken , 2 tablespoons butter , 2 cloves garlic , and Italian seasoning . Cook until chicken is no longer pink inside . Remove from skillet and set aside . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , melt 4 tablespoons butter in the skillet . Saute onion , 2 cloves garlic , and mushrooms until onions are transparent . Stir in flour , salt and pepper ; cook 2 minutes . Slowly add milk and half-and-half , stirring until smooth and creamy . Stir in Parmesan and Colby-Monterey Jack cheeses ; stir until cheese is melted . Stir in chicken mixture , tomatoes and sour cream . Serve over cooked fettuccini . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , finely chopped 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into strips 2 cups fresh spinach leaves 1 (4.5 ounce) package dry Alfredo sauce mix 2 tablespoons pesto 1 (8 ounce) package dry penne pasta 1 tablespoon grated Romano cheese  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat . Add garlic , saute for 1 minute ; then add chicken and cook for 7 to 8 minutes on each side . When chicken is close to being cooked through (no longer pink inside) , add spinach and saute all together for 3 to 4 minutes . Meanwhile , prepare Alfredo sauce according to package directions . When finished , stir in 2 tablespoons pesto ; set aside . In a large pot of salted boiling water , cook pasta for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente . Rinse under cold water and drain . Add chicken/spinach mixture to pasta , then stir in pesto/Alfredo sauce . Mix well , top with cheese and serve . 
cooking spray 9 uncooked lasagna noodles 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (14.5 ounce) can vegetable broth 1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary 1 (14 ounce) can marinated artichoke hearts , drained and chopped 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach , thawed , drained and squeezed dry 1 (28 ounce) jar tomato pasta sauce 3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese , divided 1 (4 ounce) package herb and garlic feta , crumbled  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spray a 9x13 inch baking dish with cooking spray . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add noodles and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Spray a large skillet with cooking spray and heat on medium-high . Saute onion and garlic for 3 minutes , or until onion is tender-crisp . Stir in broth and rosemary ; bring to a boil . Stir in artichoke hearts and spinach ; reduce heat , cover and simmer 5 minutes . Stir in pasta sauce . Spread 1/4 of the artichoke mixture in the bottom of the prepared baking dish ; top with 3 cooked noodles . Sprinkle 3/4 cup mozzarella cheese over noodles . Repeat layers 2 more times , ending with artichoke mixture and mozzarella cheese . Sprinkle crumbled feta on top . Bake , covered , for 40 minutes . Uncover , and bake 15 minutes more , or until hot and bubbly . Let stand 10 minutes before cutting . 
1 egg , beaten 2 ounces dry bread crumbs 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 3/4 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 2 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium baking sheet . Pour egg into a small shallow bowl . Place bread crumbs in a separate shallow bowl . Dip chicken into egg , then into the bread crumbs . Place coated chicken on the prepared baking sheet and bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes , or until no longer pink and juices run clear . Pour 1/2 of the spaghetti sauce into a 7x11 inch baking dish . Place chicken over sauce , and cover with remaining sauce . Sprinkle mozzarella and Parmesan cheeses on top and return to the preheated oven for 20 minutes . 
1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon coarse salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 pound fresh asparagus spears , trimmed  | Melt butter in a skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in the olive oil , salt , and pepper . Cook garlic in butter for a minute , but do not brown . Add asparagus , and cook for 10 minutes , turning asparagus to ensure even cooking . 
6 egg yolks 3/4 cup white sugar 2/3 cup milk 1 1/4 cups heavy cream 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 pound mascarpone cheese 1/4 cup strong brewed coffee , room temperature 2 tablespoons rum 2 (3 ounce) packages ladyfinger cookies 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder  | In a medium saucepan , whisk together egg yolks and sugar until well blended . Whisk in milk and cook over medium heat , stirring constantly , until mixture boils . Boil gently for 1 minute , remove from heat and allow to cool slightly . Cover tightly and chill in refrigerator 1 hour . In a medium bowl , beat cream with vanilla until stiff peaks form . Whisk mascarpone into yolk mixture until smooth . In a small bowl , combine coffee and rum . Split ladyfingers in half lengthwise and drizzle with coffee mixture . Arrange half of soaked ladyfingers in bottom of a 7x11 inch dish . Spread half of mascarpone mixture over ladyfingers , then half of whipped cream over that . Repeat layers and sprinkle with cocoa . Cover and refrigerate 4 to 6 hours , until set . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , crushed and finely chopped 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes , or to taste 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 cups prepared marinara sauce 1/4 cup chopped fresh basil 1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese , divided 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese , divided 1 (5 ounce) package garlic croutons  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat the bottom of a 9x13 inch casserole dish with olive oil , and sprinkle with garlic and hot red pepper flakes . Arrange the chicken breasts in bottom of the dish , and pour marinara sauce over chicken . Sprinkle basil over marinara sauce , and top with half the mozzarella cheese , followed by half the Parmesan cheese . Sprinkle on the croutons , then top with the remaining mozzarella cheese and remaining Parmesan cheese . Bake in preheated oven until cheese and croutons are golden brown and the chicken is no longer pink inside , about 35 minutes to an hour , depending on the shape and thickness of your chicken breasts . An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of a chicken breast should read at least 160 degrees F (70 degrees C) . 
1 pound seashell pasta 1/4 pound Genoa salami , chopped 1/4 pound pepperoni sausage , chopped 1/2 pound Asiago cheese , diced 1 (6 ounce) can black olives , drained and chopped 1 red bell pepper , diced 1 green bell pepper , chopped 3 tomatoes , chopped 1 (.7 ounce) package dry Italian-style salad dressing mix 3/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 2 tablespoons dried oregano 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Cook the pasta in a large pot of salted boiling water until al dente . Drain , and cool under cold water . In a large bowl , combine the pasta , salami , pepperoni , Asiago cheese , black olives , red bell pepper , green bell pepper and tomatoes . Stir in the envelope of dressing mix . Cover , and refrigerate for at least one hour . To prepare the dressing , whisk together the olive oil , balsamic vinegar , oregano , parsley , Parmesan cheese , salt and pepper . Just before serving , pour dressing over the salad , and mix well . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 onion , chopped 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 1 (14.5 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 2 cups water 1 tablespoon dried oregano 2 teaspoons garlic powder 2 teaspoons salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon white sugar 12 ounces cottage cheese 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 egg 9 lasagna noodles 1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a large skillet over medium heat , cook beef until brown . Drain . In another skillet over medium heat , cook onion until translucent . Combine beef and onion in a large saucepan with tomato paste , crushed tomatoes , water , oregano , garlic powder , salt , pepper and sugar . Cook over medium heat until mixture comes to a boil . Reduce heat to low and simmer 1 hour . While sauce is simmering , blend cottage cheese , Parmesan and egg until smooth . Set aside . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spread 1 cup of sauce in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Cover sauce with 3 noodles . Cover noodles with one-third of remaining sauce . Top with half the mozzarella . Place another layer of noodles and one of sauce over the mozzarella ; top that with the cottage cheese mixture . Top with remaining 3 noodles and remaining sauce . Bake in preheated oven 30 minutes . Sprinkle remaining mozzarella on top and bake 15 minutes more , until golden and bubbly . 
6 (4 ounce) links sweet Italian sausage 2 tablespoons butter 1 yellow onion , sliced 1/2 red onion , sliced 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 large red bell pepper , sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 cup white wine  | Place the sausage in a large skillet over medium heat , and brown on all sides . Remove from skillet , and slice . Melt butter in the skillet . Stir in the yellow onion , red onion , and garlic , and cook 2 to 3 minutes . Mix in red bell pepper and green bell pepper . Season with basil , and oregano . Stir in white wine . Continue to cook and stir until peppers and onions are tender . Return sausage slices to skillet with the vegetables . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 15 minutes , or until sausage is heated through . 
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 tablespoon active dry yeast 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1 pinch ground black pepper 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 cup water 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese 1 cup mozzarella  | In a large bowl , stir together the flour , salt , sugar , yeast , garlic powder , oregano , thyme , basil and black pepper . Mix in the vegetable oil and water . When the dough has pulled together , turn it out onto a lightly floured surface , and knead until smooth and elastic . Lightly oil a large bowl , place the dough in the bowl , and turn to coat with oil . Cover with a damp cloth , and let rise in a warm place for 20 minutes . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Punch dough down ; place on greased baking sheet . Pat into a 1/2 inch thick rectangle . Brush top with olive oil . Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and mozzarella cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes , or until golden brown . Serve warm . 
1 pound linguine pasta 1/2 cup butter 2 cups heavy cream 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/3 cup pesto 1 pound large shrimp , peeled and deveined  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add linguine pasta , and cook for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . In a large skillet , melt the butter over medium heat . Stir in cream , and season with pepper . Cook 6 to 8 minutes , stirring constantly . Stir Parmesan cheese into cream sauce , stirring until thoroughly mixed . Blend in the pesto , and cook for 3 to 5 minutes , until thickened . Stir in the shrimp , and cook until they turn pink , about 5 minutes . Serve over the hot linguine . 
1 pound ground beef 1/2 pound ground veal 1/2 pound ground pork 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 eggs 1 cup freshly grated Romano cheese 1 1/2 tablespoons chopped Italian flat leaf parsley salt and ground black pepper to taste 2 cups stale Italian bread , crumbled 1 1/2 cups lukewarm water 1 cup olive oil  | Combine beef , veal , and pork in a large bowl . Add garlic , eggs , cheese , parsley , salt and pepper . Blend bread crumbs into meat mixture . Slowly add the water 1/2 cup at a time . The mixture should be very moist but still hold its shape if rolled into meatballs . (I usually use about 1 1/4 cups of water) . Shape into meatballs . Heat olive oil in a large skillet . Fry meatballs in batches . When the meatball is very brown and slightly crisp remove from the heat and drain on a paper towel . (If your mixture is too wet , cover the meatballs while they are cooking so that they hold their shape better.) 
1/2 cup seasoned bread crumbs 5 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 2 teaspoons dried oregano , divided salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 1 (12 ounce) package firm tofu 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1 clove garlic , minced 4 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a small bowl , combine bread crumbs , 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese , 1 teaspoon oregano , salt , and black pepper . Slice tofu into 1/4 inch thick slices , and place in bowl of cold water . One at a time , press tofu slices into crumb mixture , turning to coat all sides . Heat oil in a medium skillet over medium heat . Cook tofu slices until crisp on one side . Drizzle with a bit more olive oil , turn , and brown on the other side . Combine tomato sauce , basil , garlic , and remaining oregano . Place a thin layer of sauce in an 8 inch square baking pan . Arrange tofu slices in the pan . Spoon remaining sauce over tofu . Top with shredded mozzarella and remaining 3 tablespoons Parmesan . Bake at 400 degrees F (205 degrees C) for 20 minutes . 
1 pound dry ziti pasta 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , sliced 1 teaspoon minced fresh rosemary 4 cloves garlic , chopped 1/2 pound ground beef 1/2 pound ground pork sausage 1 1/2 (26 ounce) jars spaghetti sauce salt to taste 1 (6 ounce) package provolone cheese , sliced 3/4 cup sour cream 3/4 cup cottage cheese 1 (6 ounce) package mozzarella cheese , shredded 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook pasta in boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , heat olive oil in large , heavy skillet over medium heat . Cook onion in oil until tender . Stir in rosemary and garlic . Transfer to a small bowl . Place ground beef and sausage in the skillet . Cook over medium-high heat until evenly brown . Stir in the onion mixture and the spaghetti sauce . Season with salt . Reduce heat to low , and simmer for 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In the prepared dish , layer 1/2 of the cooked pasta , provolone cheese , sour cream , cottage cheese , and a little less than 1/2 of the meat mixture . Then layer the rest of the pasta , mozzarella cheese , remaining meat mixture , and Parmesan cheese . Bake in the preheated oven for 20 to 30 minutes , or until heated through and cheeses are melted . 
3 large skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1/2-inch medallions salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , or as needed 1 clove garlic , minced 1 cup low sodium chicken broth 1/2 lemon , thinly sliced 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 2 tablespoons capers , drained and rinsed 3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons minced Italian (flat-leaf) parsley  | Preheat oven to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) . Place a serving platter into the oven to warm . Season the chicken breast pieces with salt and pepper and dredge them in flour . Shake off excess flour . Heat the vegetable oil in a skillet ; pan-fry the chicken pieces until golden brown on both sides , about 3 minutes per side . Work in batches and do not crowd skillet , adding oil as needed . Place the chicken pieces onto the warmed platter in the oven . When finished with all the chicken , drain most of the oil from the skillet , leaving a thin coating on the surface of the pan . Cook and stir the minced garlic in the skillet until fragrant , about 20 seconds . Pour in the chicken broth . Scrape and dissolve any brown bits from the bottom of the skillet . Stir in the lemon slices and bring the mixture to a boil . Let cook , stirring occasionally , until the sauce reduces to about 2/3 cup , 5 to 8 minutes . Add the lemon juice and capers ; simmer until the sauce is reduced and slightly thickened , about 5 minutes more . Drop the butter into the skillet and swirl it into the sauce by tilting the skillet until the butter is melted and incorporated . Add the parsley ; remove from heat and set aside . Arrange the chicken medallions on serving plates and spoon sauce over each portion to serve . 
1 pound spaghetti 6 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 3/4 cups grated Pecorino Romano cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook spaghetti in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until tender yet firm to the bite , about 10 minutes . Scoop out some of the cooking water and reserve . Drain spaghetti . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add garlic and pepper ; cook and stir until fragrant , 1 to 2 minutes . Add spaghetti and Pecorino Romano cheese . Ladle in 1/2 cup of reserved cooking water ; stir until cheese is melted , about 1 minute . Add more cooking water until sauce coats spaghetti , about 1 minute more . 
1/2 cup olive oil , divided 6 cloves garlic , sliced 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes with garlic and olive oil 1/2 cup tomato sauce 1 bunch fresh basil , chopped 1 (12 ounce) package dried penne pasta 2 eggs 2 cups bread crumbs 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 pound thin chicken breast cutlets  | Heat 1/4 cup of olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the garlic , and saute for a few minutes . Sprinkle in the red pepper flakes , and saute for another minute . Pour in the diced tomatoes and tomato sauce , and add the basil . Simmer for about 20 minutes , stirring occasionally . Meanwhile , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add penne pasta , and cook for 8 minutes , or until tender . Drain . In a small bowl , whisk eggs with a fork . Place bread crumbs in a separate bowl . Stir the garlic powder , salt and pepper into the bread crumbs . Dip chicken cutlets into the egg , then press into the bread crumbs until completely coated . Heat remaining olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Fry chicken for about 5 minutes per side , or until the coating is a nice dark brown color . Remove chicken , and cut into slices . Toss the chicken slices into the sauce , and simmer for about 10 minutes . Stir in the cooked penne , simmer for a few more minutes to soak up the flavor , then serve . 
1 pound ground beef 3/4 cup bread crumbs 2 teaspoons dried Italian seasoning 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 egg , beaten 1 French baguette 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 pinch salt , or to taste 1 (14 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 4 slices provolone cheese  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , gently mix by hand the ground beef , bread crumbs , Italian seasoning , garlic , parsley , Parmesan cheese , and egg . Shape into 12 meatballs , and place in a baking dish . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , or until cooked through . Meanwhile , cut the baguette in half lengthwise , and remove some of the bread from the inside to make a well for the meatballs . Brush with olive oil , and season with garlic powder and salt . Slip the baguette into the oven during the last 5 minutes of the meatball's time , or until lightly toasted . While the bread toasts , warm the spaghetti sauce in a saucepan over medium heat . When the meatballs are done , use a slotted spoon to transfer them to the sauce . Spoon onto the baguette and top with slices of provolone cheese . Return to the oven for 2 to 3 minutes to melt the cheese . Cool slightly , cut into servings , and enjoy ! 
1 tablespoon garlic salt 1 tablespoon onion powder 1 tablespoon white sugar 2 tablespoons dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1/4 teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons salt  | In a small bowl , mix together the garlic salt , onion powder , sugar , oregano , pepper , thyme , basil , parsley , celery salt and regular salt . Store in a tightly sealed container . To prepare dressing , whisk together 1/4 cup white vinegar , 2/3 cup canola oil , 2 tablespoons water and 2 tablespoons of the dry mix . 
1 (12 ounce) package penne pasta 2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 6 slices bacon , chopped 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 bunch fresh spinach , rinsed and torn into bite-size pieces  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add the penne pasta , and cook until tender , 8 to 10 minutes . Meanwhile , heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Place bacon in the skillet , and cook until browned and crisp . Add garlic , and cook for about 1 minute . Stir in the tomatoes , and cook until heated through . Place the spinach into a colander , and drain the hot pasta over it so it is wilted . Transfer to a large serving bowl , and toss with the remaining olive oil , and the bacon and tomato mixture . 
1 (16 ounce) package angel hair pasta 1/4 cup olive oil 1/2 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1 (10.75 ounce) can low-sodium chicken broth crushed red pepper to taste freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Pour olive oil in a large deep skillet over high-heat . Saute onions and garlic until lightly browned . Reduce heat to medium-high and add tomatoes , vinegar and chicken broth ; simmer for about 8 minutes . Stir in red pepper , black pepper , basil and cooked pasta , tossing thoroughly with sauce . Simmer for about 5 more minutes and serve topped with grated cheese . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves cayenne pepper , or to taste salt and ground black pepper to taste all-purpose flour for dredging 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon capers , drained 1/2 cup white wine 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1/4 cup water 3 tablespoons cold unsalted butter , cut in 1/4-inch slices 2 tablespoons fresh Italian parsley , chopped  | Place chicken breasts between 2 layers of plastic wrap and pound to about 1/2-inch thick . Season both sides of chicken breasts with cayenne , salt , and black pepper ; dredge lightly in flour and shake off any excess . Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Place chicken in the pan , reduce heat to medium , and cook until browned and cooked through , about 5 minutes per side ; remove to a plate . Cook capers in reserved oil , smashing them lightly to release brine , until warmed though , about 30 seconds . Pour white wine into skillet . Scrape any browned bits from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon . Cook until reduced by half , about 2 minutes . Stir lemon juice , water , and butter into the reduced wine mixture ; cook and stir continuously to form a thick sauce , about 2 minutes . Reduce heat to low and stir parsley through the sauce . Return chicken breasts to the pan cook until heated through , 1 to 2 minutes . Serve with sauce spooned over the top . 
1 1/4 pounds lean ground beef 1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chili powder 18 jumbo pasta shells 2 tablespoons butter , melted 1 cup taco sauce 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 1/2 cups crushed tortilla chips 1 cup sour cream  | In a large skillet , brown beef over medium heat until no longer pink ; drain . Add cream cheese , salt and chili powder ; mix and simmer for 5 minutes . Meanwhile , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Toss cooked shells in butter . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Fill shells with beef mixture and arrange in a 9x13 inch baking dish ; pour taco sauce over shells . Cover with foil and bake in preheated oven for 15 minutes . Remove dish from oven and top with Cheddar cheese , Monterey Jack cheese and tortilla chips ; return dish to oven to cook for 15 minutes more . Top with sour cream and onions ; serve . 
1 (1 pound) loaf Italian bread 5 tablespoons butter , softened 2 teaspoons extra virgin olive oil 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 teaspoon dried oregano salt and pepper to taste 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese  | Preheat the broiler . Cut the bread into slices 1 to 2 inches thick . In a small bowl , mix butter , olive oil , garlic , oregano , salt and pepper . Spread the mixture evenly on the bread slices . On a medium baking sheet , arrange the slices evenly and broil 5 minutes , or until slightly brown . Check frequently so they do not burn . Remove from broiler . Top with cheese and return to broiler 2 to 3 minutes , until cheese is slightly brown and melted . Serve at once . 
1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 tablespoon ground oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons dried minced garlic 1 teaspoon ground paprika  | In a medium bowl , Mix together tomato sauce and tomato paste until smooth . Stir in oregano , garlic and paprika . 
1/3 cup plain bread crumbs 1/2 cup milk 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , diced 1 pound ground beef 1 pound ground pork 2 eggs 1/4 bunch fresh parsley , chopped 3 cloves garlic , crushed 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 teaspoon dried Italian herb seasoning 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese  | Cover a baking sheet with foil and spray lightly with cooking spray . Soak bread crumbs in milk in a small bowl for 20 minutes . Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir onions in hot oil until translucent , about 20 minutes . Mix beef and pork together in a large bowl . Stir onions , bread crumb mixture , eggs , parsley , garlic , salt , black pepper , red pepper flakes , Italian herb seasoning , and Parmesan cheese into meat mixture with a rubber spatula until combined . Cover and refrigerate for about one hour . Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Using wet hands , form meat mixture into balls about 1 1/2 inches in diameter . Arrange onto prepared baking sheet . Bake in the preheated oven until browned and cooked through , 15 to 20 minutes . 
2 green bell peppers , diced 2 red bell peppers , diced 8 fresh jalapeno peppers , sliced 1 celery stalk , diced 1 medium carrot , diced 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 cup fresh cauliflower florets 1/2 cup salt water to cover 2 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1 (5 ounce) jar pimento-stuffed green olives , chopped 1 cup white vinegar 1 cup olive oil  | Place into a bowl the green and red peppers , jalapenos , celery , carrots , onion , and cauliflower . Stir in salt , and fill with enough cold water to cover . Place plastic wrap or aluminum foil over the bowl , and refrigerate overnight . The next day , drain salty water , and rinse vegetables . In a bowl , mix together garlic , oregano , red pepper flakes , black pepper , and olives . Pour in vinegar and olive oil , and mix well . Combine with vegetable mixture , cover , and refrigerate for 2 days before using . 
1/2 cup vegetable oil 1 cup white sugar 3 1/4 cups all-purpose flour 3 eggs 1 tablespoon baking powder 1 tablespoon anise extract , or 3 drops anise oil  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease cookie sheets or line with parchment paper . In a medium bowl , beat together the oil , eggs , sugar and anise flavoring until well blended . Combine the flour and baking powder , stir into the egg mixture to form a heavy dough . Divide dough into two pieces . Form each piece into a roll as long as your cookie sheet . Place roll onto the prepared cookie sheet , and press down to 1/2 inch thickness . Bake for 25 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until golden brown . Remove from the baking sheet to cool on a wire rack . When The cookies are cool enough to handle , slice each one crosswise into 1/2 inch slices . Place the slices cut side up back onto the baking sheet . Bake for an additional 6 to 10 minutes on each side . Slices should be lightly toasted . 
1 tablespoon olive oil or canola oil 8 large garlic cloves , crushed or minced 1 medium yellow onion , chopped 4 cups chopped raw kale 4 cups low-fat , low-sodium chicken or vegetable broth 2 (15 ounce) cans white beans , such as cannellini or navy , undrained 4 plum tomatoes , chopped 2 teaspoons dried Italian herb seasoning Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup chopped parsley  | In a large pot , heat olive oil . Add garlic and onion ; saute until soft . Add kale and saute , stirring , until wilted . Add 3 cups of broth , 2 cups of beans , and all of the tomato , herbs , salt and pepper . Simmer 5 minutes . In a blender or food processor , mix the remaining beans and broth until smooth . Stir into soup to thicken . Simmer 15 minutes . Ladle into bowls ; sprinkle with chopped parsley . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/4 inch thickness 1 cup prepared basil pesto 4 thick slices mozzarella cheese cooking spray  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spray a baking dish with cooking spray . Spread 2 to 3 tablespoons of the pesto sauce onto each flattened chicken breast . Place one slice of cheese over the pesto . Roll up tightly , and secure with toothpicks . Place in a lightly greased baking dish . Bake uncovered for 45 to 50 minutes in the preheated oven , until chicken is nicely browned and juices run clear . 
1 cup butter , softened 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 tablespoon garlic salt 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground paprika  | In a small bowl , combine softened butter , minced garlic and parmesan cheese . Season with garlic salt , Italian seasoning , pepper and paprika . Mix until smooth . 
2 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 cup chopped onion 6 cloves garlic , finely chopped 1 pound ground beef salt to taste 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 1 (12 ounce) package manicotti shells 2 cups ricotta cheese 2 eggs , beaten 3 cups spaghetti sauce , divided 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons chicken bouillon granules 2 cups half-and-half 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute onions until translucent . Saute garlic for 1 minute and stir in ground beef . Cook until well browned and crumbled . Season with salt and set aside to cool . Cook spinach according to package directions . Meanwhile , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add manicotti shells and parboil for half of the time recommended on the package . Drain and cover with cool water to stop the cooking process and prevent the shells from cracking . To the ground beef mixture add the cooked spinach and ricotta cheese . When the mixture is cool , add the beaten eggs . Spread 1/4 cup spaghetti sauce in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Gently drain the manicotti shells and carefully stuff each one with the meat and cheese mixture ; place shells in prepared dish . Lightly cover the dish with plastic wrap or a clean , damp towel to prevent shells from cracking . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Prepare the white sauce by melting the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat . Stir in flour and chicken bouillon . Increase heat to medium-high and cook , stirring constantly , until it begins to bubble . Stir in half and half and bring to a boil , stirring frequently . Cook for 1 minute , stirring constantly . Remove from heat and stir in parsley . Pour or ladle the sauce evenly over the stuffed shells . Stir the basil into the remaining spaghetti sauce . Carefully pour or ladle spaghetti sauce over the white sauce , trying to layer the sauces without mixing . Cover and bake for 40 minutes . Remove from oven , uncover and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese . Bake , uncovered , for 10 minutes more . 
6 cups chicken broth 1 onion , chopped 3 (3.5 ounce) links spicy Italian sausage 3 large potatoes , cubed 1 bunch fresh spinach , washed and chopped 1/4 cup evaporated milk salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  | Remove skin from sausage and crumble into frying pan . Add chopped onion , and cook over medium heat until meat is no longer pink . If you are trying to cut fat , remove meat from pan , place in a colander , and rinse under cold water . Place meat in a large pot ; add stock and potatoes . Boil until potato is cooked . Add spinach . Continue boiling until spinach is lightly cooked . Remove soup from heat , stir in evaporated milk , and season to taste . Do not add any salt if using canned stock . 
8 ounces lasagna noodles 1 pound ground beef 1/4 cup minced onions 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 1 (32 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 1 (16 ounce) package large curd cottage cheese 1 pound mozzarella cheese , shredded  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook noodles in boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . In a large skillet over medium heat , saute ground beef , onions , salt and garlic salt until meat is brown . Drain excess fat , add spaghetti sauce to beef mixture , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat , and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13 inch glass baking pan . Line bottom of pan with three lasagna noodles . Spread 1/3 of sauce mixture over noodles . Layer 1/3 of the cottage cheese over the sauce . Sprinkle 1/3 of the mozzarella over the cottage cheese . Repeat this layering process until all ingredients are used up . Bake in the preheated oven for one hour . Let stand for 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (16 ounce) package jumbo pasta shells 4 cups large curd cottage cheese 12 ounces mozzarella cheese , shredded 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 eggs , lightly beaten 1 pinch garlic powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1 (26 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Cook shells according to package directions . Place in cold water to stop cooking . Drain . Mix together cottage cheese , mozzarella cheese , 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese , eggs , and garlic powder . Rub the dried herbs in the palms of your hands to pulverize them , and stir into the cheese mixture . Stuff mixture into the shells . Spread 1/3 of spaghetti sauce in the bottom of a 15 x 10 inch pan . Place shells open side up , and close together in pan . Spread remaining sauce over top , and sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 25 to 35 minutes , or until bubbly . Let stand 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (16 ounce) package lasagna noodles 1 pound fresh mushrooms , sliced 3/4 cup chopped green bell pepper 3/4 cup chopped onion 3 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 (26 ounce) jars pasta sauce 1 teaspoon dried basil 1 (15 ounce) container part-skim ricotta cheese 4 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 2 eggs 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Cook the lasagna noodles in a large pot of boiling water for 10 minutes , or until al dente . Rinse with cold water , and drain . In a large saucepan , cook and stir mushrooms , green peppers , onion , and garlic in oil . Stir in pasta sauce and basil ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat , and simmer 15 minutes . Mix together ricotta , 2 cups mozzarella cheese , and eggs . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spread 1 cup tomato sauce into the bottom of a greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Layer 1/2 each , lasagna noodles , ricotta mix , sauce , and Parmesan cheese . Repeat layering , and top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese . Bake , uncovered , for 40 minutes . Let stand 15 minutes before serving . 
1 (16 ounce) package bow tie pasta 1 teaspoon olive oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 boneless skinless chicken breasts , cut into bite-size pieces crushed red pepper flakes to taste 1/3 cup oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes , drained and cut into strips 1/2 cup pesto sauce  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute garlic until tender , then stir in chicken . Season with red pepper flakes . Cook until chicken is golden , and cooked through . In a large bowl , combine pasta , chicken , sun-dried tomatoes and pesto . Toss to coat evenly . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 6 ounces pancetta or salt pork , diced 2 1/2 pounds beef chuck 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1/2 cup diced celery 1/2 cup diced carrot 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 tablespoon tomato paste 1 bay leaf 2/3 cup white wine 4 pounds yellow onions , sliced 2 pounds red onions , sliced salt to taste 2 (16 ounce) boxes uncooked rigatoni 1 tablespoon chopped fresh marjoram leaves 1 pinch cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat . Cook pancetta until most of fat is rendered out , about 6 minutes . Remove cooked pancetta with a slotted spoon and save . Raise heat to high and transfer meat to the pot . Season with salt . Cook and stir until liquid releases from beef and begins to evaporate , and meat browns , 10 to 15 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-high . Add celery , carrots , reserved cooked pancetta , salt and pepper . Cook and stir about 5 minutes . Add a heaping tablespoon of tomato paste , bay leaf , and white wine . Cook and stir , scraping up the brownings from the bottom of the pan , 2 to 3 minutes . Add sliced onions . Reduce heat to medium . Cover pot and cook 30 minutes without stirring . After 30 minutes , stir onions and meat until well mixed . Cover again , and cook another 30 minutes . Stir . Reduce heat to low and cook uncovered 8 to 10 hours , stirring occasionally . Skim off fat as mixture cooks . If sauce seems to reduce too much , add water or broth as needed to maintain a sauce-like consistency . Cook until beef and onions seem to melt into each other . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook rigatoni in the boiling water , stirring occasionally until just barely al dente , 10 to 12 minutes . Drain . Add rigatoni to the sauce and cook until heated through . Serve topped with a pinch of marjoram and freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese . 
6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (28 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 2 green bell pepper , seeded and cubed 8 ounces fresh mushrooms , sliced 1 onion , finely diced 2 tablespoons minced garlic  | Put the chicken in the slow cooker . Top with the spaghetti sauce , green bell peppers , mushrooms , onion , and garlic . Cover , and cook on Low for 7 to 9 hours . 
3 tablespoons butter 8 fluid ounces heavy whipping cream salt to taste 1 pinch ground nutmeg 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/4 cup grated Romano cheese 1 egg yolk 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese  | Melt butter or margarine in a saucepan over medium heat . Add heavy cream , stirring constantly . Stir in salt , nutmeg , grated Parmesan cheese , and grated Romano cheese . Stir constantly until melted , then mix in egg yolk . Simmer over medium low heat for 3 to 5 minutes . Garnish with additional grated Parmesan cheese , if desired . 
1/2 pound extra-lean ground beef 1 egg , lightly beaten 2 tablespoons dry bread crumbs 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 5 3/4 cups chicken broth 2 cups thinly sliced escarole 1 cup uncooked orzo pasta 1/3 cup finely chopped carrot  | In medium bowl , combine meat , egg , bread crumbs , cheese , basil and onion powder ; shape into 3/4 inch balls . In large saucepan , heat broth to boiling ; stir in escarole , orzo pasta , chopped carrot and meatballs . Return to boil , then reduce heat to medium . Cook at slow boil for 10 minutes , or until pasta is al dente . Stir frequently to prevent sticking . 
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 cup warm water 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour , divided 1 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 cup ricotta cheese 1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1/2 cup diced pepperoni 1/2 cup sliced fresh mushrooms 1 tablespoon dried basil leaves 1 egg , beaten  | To Make Dough : In a small bowl , dissolve yeast in water . Add the oil , sugar and salt ; mix in 1 cup of the flour until smooth . Gradually stir in the rest of the flour , until dough is smooth and workable . Knead dough on a lightly floured surface for about 5 minutes , or until it is elastic . Lay dough in a bowl containing 1 teaspoon olive oil , then flip the dough , cover and let rise for 40 minutes , or until almost doubled . To Make Filling : While dough is rising , combine the ricotta cheese , Cheddar cheese , pepperoni , mushrooms and basil leaves in a large bowl . Mix well , cover bowl and refrigerate to chill . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . When dough is ready , punch it down and separate it into 2 equal parts . Roll parts out into thin circles on a lightly floured surface . Fill each circle with 1/2 of the cheese/meat filling and fold over , securing edges by folding in and pressing with a fork . Brush the top of each calzone with egg and place on a lightly greased cookie sheet . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 30 minutes . Serve hot . 
8 roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 1/3 cup chopped fresh basil 1/4 cup shredded Parmesan cheese 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar 1 teaspoon olive oil 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 loaf French bread , toasted and sliced  | In a bowl , toss together the tomatoes , basil , Parmesan cheese , and garlic . Mix in the balsamic vinegar , olive oil , kosher salt , and pepper . Serve on toasted bread slices . 
1 pound sweet Italian sausage , sliced 3/4 pound lean ground beef 1/2 cup minced onion 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 2 (6.5 ounce) cans tomato sauce 1/2 cup water 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons dried basil 1/2 teaspoon fennel seed 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper  | In a large pot or Dutch oven over medium heat , cook the sausage , beef , onion , and garlic until well browned ; drain fat . Stir in crushed tomatoes , tomato paste , tomato sauce , and water . Mix in sugar and season with basil , fennel seed , Italian seasoning , salt , and pepper . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 1 1/2 hours , stirring occasionally . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 (32 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 32 ounces cottage cheese 3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 2 eggs 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 teaspoons dried parsley salt to taste ground black pepper to taste 9 lasagna noodles 1/2 cup water  | In a large skillet over medium heat brown the ground beef . Drain the grease . Add spaghetti sauce and simmer for 5 minutes . In a large bowl , mix together the cottage cheese , 2 cups of the mozzarella cheese , eggs , half of the grated Parmesan cheese , dried parsley , salt and ground black pepper . To assemble , in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish evenly spread 3/4 cup of the sauce mixture . Cover with 3 uncooked lasagna noodles , 1 3/4 cup of the cheese mixture , and 1/4 cup sauce . Repeat layers twice . Top with 3 noodles , remaining sauce , remaining mozzarella and Parmesan cheese . Add 1/2 cup water to the edges of the pan . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake in a preheated 350 degree F(175 degrees C) oven for 45 minutes . Uncover and bake an additional 10 minutes . Let stand 10 minutes before serving . 
3/4 cup mayonnaise 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 3/4 teaspoon garlic powder 3/4 cup Italian seasoned bread crumbs 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . In a bowl , mix the mayonnaise , Parmesan cheese , and garlic powder . Place bread crumbs in a separate bowl . Dip chicken into the mayonnaise mixture , then into the bread crumbs to coat . Arrange coated chicken on a baking sheet . Bake 20 minutes in the preheated oven , or until chicken juices run clear and coating is golden brown . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 onion , chopped 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 (29 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 (12 ounce) package lasagna noodles 12 ounces cottage cheese 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 16 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese  | In a large skillet over medium heat cook the ground beef , onion , and garlic until brown . Add the tomato sauce , tomato paste , salt , and oregano and stir until well incorporated . Cook until heated through . In a large bowl mix together the cottage cheese , grated Parmesan cheese , and shredded mozzarella cheese . Spoon a layer of the meat mixture onto the bottom of the slow cooker . Add a double layer of the uncooked lasagna noodles . Break to fit noodles into slow cooker . Top noodles with a portion of the cheese mixture . Repeat the layering of sauce , noodles , and cheese until all the ingredients are used . Cover , and cook on LOW setting for 4 to 6 hours . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 2 pounds Italian sausage links , cut into 2-inch pieces 1/4 cup olive oil 4 large potatoes , peeled and thickly sliced 2 large green bell peppers , seeded and cut into wedges 2 large red bell peppers , seeded and cut into wedges 3 large onions , cut into wedges 1/2 cup white wine 1/2 cup chicken stock 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning salt and pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Heat 2 teaspoons olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat , and cook and stir the sausage until browned . Transfer the cooked sausage to a large baking dish . Pour 1/4 cup of olive oil into the skillet , and cook the potatoes , stirring occasionally , until browned , about 10 minutes . Place the potatoes into the baking dish , leaving some oil . Cook and stir the green and red peppers and onions in the hot skillet until they are beginning to soften , about 5 minutes . Add the vegetables to the baking dish . Pour wine and chicken stock over the vegetables and sausage , and sprinkle with Italian seasoning , salt , and pepper . Gently stir the sausage , potatoes , and vegetables together . Bake in the preheated oven until hot and bubbling , 20 to 25 minutes . Serve hot . 
1 pound spaghetti 4 tablespoons olive oil 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1 (2 ounce) can anchovy fillets , chopped 1 cup fine bread crumbs 1 cup chopped fresh parsley ground black pepper to taste 4 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , in a medium skillet , heat olive oil over medium heat and add garlic and anchovies to cook for about 2 minutes ; stir constantly . Stir in breadcrumbs and turn off heat . Add parsley and black ground pepper ; mix together . Toss anchovy sauce with hot pasta and sprinkle with cheese ; serve . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 3/4 cup chopped onion 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 (16 ounce) cans crushed tomatoes 3 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 1 cup water 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 cup chopped fresh oregano , divided 1 dried bay leaf salt and pepper to taste 1 pound ground round 1/2 cup Italian seasoned bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2 eggs , lightly beaten 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 (16 ounce) package uncooked spaghetti  | Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat , and cook the onion until lightly brown . Mix in 2 cloves garlic , and cook 1 minute . Stir in crushed tomatoes , tomato paste , water , sugar , 1/2 the oregano , and bay leaf . Season with salt and pepper . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , and simmer while preparing meatballs . In a bowl , mix the ground round , bread crumbs , remaining oregano , remaining garlic , parsley , eggs , and cheese . Season with salt and pepper . Roll into 1 inch balls , and drop into the sauce . Cook 40 minutes in the sauce , or until internal temperature of meatballs reaches a minimum of 160 degrees F (72 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil , and stir in the spaghetti . Cook 8 to 10 minutes , until al dente , and drain . Serve the meatballs and sauce over the cooked spaghetti . 
6 egg yolks 1 1/4 cups white sugar 1 1/4 cups mascarpone cheese 1 3/4 cups heavy whipping cream 2 (12 ounce) packages ladyfingers 1/3 cup coffee flavored liqueur 1 teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder , for dusting 1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate  | Combine egg yolks and sugar in the top of a double boiler , over boiling water . Reduce heat to low , and cook for about 10 minutes , stirring constantly . Remove from heat and whip yolks until thick and lemon colored . Add mascarpone to whipped yolks . Beat until combined . In a separate bowl , whip cream to stiff peaks . Gently fold into yolk mixture and set aside . Split the lady fingers in half , and line the bottom and sides of a large glass bowl . Brush with coffee liqueur . Spoon half of the cream filling over the lady fingers . Repeat ladyfingers , coffee liqueur and filling layers . Garnish with cocoa and chocolate curls . Refrigerate several hours or overnight . To make the chocolate curls , use a vegetable peeler and run it down the edge of the chocolate bar . 
1 (3 pound) whole chicken , rinsed salt and pepper to taste 1 small onion , quartered 1/4 cup chopped fresh rosemary  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Season chicken with salt and pepper to taste . Stuff with the onion and rosemary . Place chicken in a 9x13 inch baking dish or roasting dish . Roast in the preheated oven for 2 to 2 1/2 hours , or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear . Cooking time will vary a bit depending on the size of the bird . 
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C) 1 tablespoon white sugar 2 1/4 teaspoons active dry yeast 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour  | Stir water , sugar and yeast together until dissolved . Add the olive oil and the salt . Stir in the flour until well blended . Let dough rest for 10 minutes . Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil . If desired sprinkle basil , thyme or other seasonings on crust . Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven . 
12 ounces spaghetti 1 cup chopped onions 1 cup chopped green bell peppers 1 pound lean ground beef 1 (16 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (4.5 ounce) can mushrooms , drained 1 teaspoon dried oregano 2 cups shredded mild Cheddar cheese 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add spaghetti , and cook for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente . Drain , and set aside . In a large skillet over medium-high heat , saute the onions , green peppers and ground beef . Once beef is brown and onions and peppers softened , add the tomatoes , mushrooms and oregano . Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . Place half of the cooked spaghetti into the prepared dish . Top with half of the meat mixture . Sprinkle with 1 cup of the mild Cheddar cheese . Repeat . In a medium bowl , mix together cream of mushroom soup and water until smooth ; pour over casserole . Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes . Let stand 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (16 ounce) package penne pasta 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into thin strips 2 cloves garlic , minced salt and pepper to taste 1 1/4 cups heavy cream 1/4 cup pesto 3 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat butter and olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Saute chicken and garlic until chicken is almost cooked . Reduce heat and stir in salt , pepper , cream , pesto and Parmesan cheese . Cook until chicken is no longer pink inside . Stir in cooked pasta . 
4 tablespoons butter 4 (1 inch thick) pork chops 1/2 cup dry white wine 1 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon crushed dried rosemary 2 cloves garlic , minced  | In a large skillet , melt butter over medium heat . Cook chops in butter , turning once to brown evenly . Pour in wine , and season with salt , pepper , rosemary , and garlic . Simmer , uncovered , for 20 minutes , or until chops are tender . Transfer pork chops to serving plates , and spoon sauce over the meat . 
1 pound ground beef 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 small green bell pepper , diced 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (16 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 teaspoons dried oregano 2 teaspoons dried basil 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon black pepper  | Combine ground beef , onion , garlic , and green pepper in a large saucepan . Cook and stir until meat is brown and vegetables are tender . Drain grease . Stir diced tomatoes , tomato sauce , and tomato paste into the pan . Season with oregano , basil , salt , and pepper . Simmer spaghetti sauce for 1 hour , stirring occasionally . 
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti , broken into pieces 1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 cup chicken broth 1 cup heavy cream 2 tablespoons sherry 1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms , drained 2 cups chopped cooked chicken 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add spaghetti , and cook for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente ; drain . Meanwhile , in a large saucepan , melt butter over low heat . Stir in flour , salt , and pepper . Cook , stirring , until smooth . Remove from heat , and gradually stir in chicken broth and cream . Return to heat , and bring to a low boil for 1 minute , stirring constantly . Add sherry , then stir in cooked spaghetti , mushrooms , and chicken . Pour mixture into the prepared baking dish , and top with Parmesan cheese . Bake 30 minutes in the preheated oven , until bubbly and lightly browned . 
3/4 cup butter 2 onions , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 bunch fresh parsley , chopped 2 (14.5 ounce) cans stewed tomatoes 2 (14.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 2 bay leaves 1 tablespoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1 cup water 1 1/2 cups white wine 1 1/2 pounds large shrimp - peeled and deveined 1 1/2 pounds bay scallops 18 small clams 18 mussels , cleaned and debearded 1 1/2 cups crabmeat 1 1/2 pounds cod fillets , cubed  | Over medium-low heat melt butter in a large stockpot , add onions , garlic and parsley . Cook slowly , stirring occasionally until onions are soft . Add tomatoes to the pot (break them into chunks as you add them) . Add chicken broth , bay leaves , basil , thyme , oregano , water and wine . Mix well . Cover and simmer 30 minutes . Stir in the shrimp , scallops , clams , mussels and crabmeat . Stir in fish , if desired . Bring to boil . Lower heat , cover and simmer 5 to 7 minutes until clams open . Ladle soup into bowls and serve with warm , crusty bread ! 
1 pound sweet Italian sausage 3/4 pound lean ground beef 1/2 cup minced onion 2 cloves garlic , crushed 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 2 (6 ounce) cans tomato paste 2 (6.5 ounce) cans canned tomato sauce 1/2 cup water 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons dried basil leaves 1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning 1 tablespoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 12 lasagna noodles 16 ounces ricotta cheese 1 egg 1/2 teaspoon salt 3/4 pound mozzarella cheese , sliced 3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | In a Dutch oven , cook sausage , ground beef , onion , and garlic over medium heat until well browned . Stir in crushed tomatoes , tomato paste , tomato sauce , and water . Season with sugar , basil , fennel seeds , Italian seasoning , 1 tablespoon salt , pepper , and 2 tablespoons parsley . Simmer , covered , for about 1 1/2 hours , stirring occasionally . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook lasagna noodles in boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes . Drain noodles , and rinse with cold water . In a mixing bowl , combine ricotta cheese with egg , remaining parsley , and 1/2 teaspoon salt . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . To assemble , spread 1 1/2 cups of meat sauce in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Arrange 6 noodles lengthwise over meat sauce . Spread with one half of the ricotta cheese mixture . Top with a third of mozzarella cheese slices . Spoon 1 1/2 cups meat sauce over mozzarella , and sprinkle with 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese . Repeat layers , and top with remaining mozzarella and Parmesan cheese . Cover with foil : to prevent sticking , either spray foil with cooking spray , or make sure the foil does not touch the cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 25 minutes . Remove foil , and bake an additional 25 minutes . Cool for 15 minutes before serving . 
1 (16 ounce) package uncooked farfalle pasta 1 pound hot Italian turkey sausage , cut into 1/2 inch slices 1/2 cup olive oil , divided 4 cloves garlic , diced 1/2 onion , diced 2 small zucchini , chopped 2 small yellow squash , chopped 6 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 20 leaves fresh basil 2 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Place farfalle in pot and cook 8 to 10 minutes , until al dente ; drain . Place sausage in a large skillet over medium heat and cook until evenly brown ; set aside . Heat 1/4 cup oil in skillet . Stir in garlic and onion , and cook until tender . Mix in zucchini , squash , tomatoes , bell pepper and basil . Dissolve bouillon in the mixture . Season with red pepper . Stir in remaining oil . Continue cooking 10 minutes . Mix pasta , sausage and cheese into skillet . Continue cooking 5 minutes , or until heated through . 
1 pound ground beef 1/2 (25 ounce) package frozen cheese ravioli 1 (14 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , drained 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Crumble the ground beef into a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir until no longer pink . Drain grease , then stir in the spaghetti sauce and tomatoes . Spread 1/3 of the sauce in the bottom of an 11x7 inch baking dish . Arrange 1/2 of the ravioli over the sauce . Sprinkle 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese and 1/2 of the Monterey Jack cheese over the ravioli . Repeat layers , ending with the last of the sauce on top . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake for 30 minutes in the preheated oven . Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the top before serving . 
1 pound fettuccini pasta 1 tablespoon butter 1 pound cooked shrimp - peeled and deveined 4 cloves garlic , minced 1 cup half-and-half 6 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley salt to taste  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . In a large skillet , cook and stir shrimp and garlic in the butter for about one minute . Pour in half and half ; stir . Sprinkle Parmesan cheese in one tablespoon at a time , stirring constantly . After all Parmesan is added , mix in parsley and salt . Stir frequently making sure it does not boil . Sauce will take a while to thicken . When sauce has thickened , combine with cooked pasta noodles ; serve hot . 
3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 6 uncooked lasagna noodles 1 cube chicken bouillon 1/4 cup hot water 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 1 (26 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce  | Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Cook lasagna noodles for 8 to 10 minutes , or until al dente . Drain , rinse with cold water , and set aside . Meanwhile , place the chicken in a saucepan with enough water to cover , and bring to a boil . Cook for 20 minutes , or until no longer pink and juices run clear . Remove from saucepan , and shred . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Dissolve the bouillon cube in hot water . In a large bowl , mix the chicken with the bouillon , cream cheese , and 1 cup mozzarella cheese . Spread 1/3 of spaghetti sauce in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Cover with the chicken mixture , and top with 3 lasagna noodles ; repeat . Top with remaining sauce , and sprinkle with remaining mozzarella cheese . Bake for 45 minutes in the preheated oven . 
3 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , quartered then halved 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 (29 ounce) can tomato sauce 5 1/2 cups water 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1 1/2 teaspoons dried basil 1 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano 1 teaspoon salt 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans 1 (15 ounce) can navy beans 1/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 pound ditalini pasta  | In a large pot over medium heat , cook onion in olive oil until translucent . Stir in garlic and cook until tender . Reduce heat , and stir in tomato sauce , water , parsley , basil , oregano , salt , cannelini beans , navy beans and Parmesan . Simmer 1 hour . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Stir into soup . 
1 pint heavy whipping cream 1/2 cup butter 1 1/2 cups grated Parmesan cheese  | In a medium saucepan combine whipping cream , butter or margarine , and grated Parmesan cheese . Cook over medium low heat until smooth . Remove from heat . Sauce will thicken upon standing . 
3 cups packed fresh basil leaves 4 cloves garlic 3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup olive oil 1/4 cup pine nuts 1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley (optional)  | Combine basil , garlic , Parmesan cheese , olive oil , and nuts in the bowl of a food processor or blender . Blend to a smooth paste . Add parsley if desired . 
1 (28 ounce) can stewed tomatoes 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 pound lean ground beef 2 yellow onions , chopped 2 green bell peppers , chopped 5 cloves garlic , chopped 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano salt and pepper to taste  | Blend the stewed tomatoes and crushed tomatoes in a blender . In a stock pot or large kettle , brown the ground beef with the onions , peppers , garlic . Pour in tomatoes , and reduce heat . Add sugar , basil and oregano , and simmer about 40 minutes . Season with salt and pepper before serving . 
1 (12 ounce) package dry penne pasta 2 teaspoons olive oil 1 pound mild Italian sausage 1 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup white wine 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes with garlic 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . Heat oil in a large , deep skillet . Place sausage and onion in the skillet and cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain excess fat . Pour in wine , and cook for 1 minute , stirring , to deglaze the pan . Stir in tomato sauce , diced tomatoes and tomato paste . Simmer for 10 minutes , stirring occasionally . Toss with cooked pasta , and place in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Sprinkle top with mozzarella . Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes , or until cheese is melted . 
1 pound extra-lean ground beef 2 eggs , beaten 1/4 cup dried bread crumbs 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon dried basil 3 tablespoons minced onion 2 1/2 quarts chicken broth 2 cups spinach - packed , rinsed and thinly sliced 1 cup seashell pasta 3/4 cup diced carrots  | In a medium bowl , combine the beef , egg , bread crumbs , cheese , basil and onion . Shape mixture into 3/4-inch balls and set aside . In a large stockpot heat chicken broth to boiling ; stir in the spinach , pasta , carrot and meatballs . Return to boil ; reduce heat to medium . Cook , stirring frequently , at a slow boil for 10 minutes or until pasta is al dente , and meatballs are no longer pink inside . Serve hot with Parmesan cheese sprinkled on top . 
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough , thawed 1 egg , beaten 4 ounces sliced pepperoni sausage 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 1/2 teaspoons Italian seasoning  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Lightly grease a baking sheet . Roll frozen bread dough out into a rectangle . Brush dough with beaten egg . Arrange pepperoni , mozzarella cheese and parmesan cheese over the dough . Sprinkle on the Italian seasoning . Roll up dough like a jelly roll and pinch seam to seal ; place , seam side down , on prepared baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven for 40 minutes , or until golden . 
Gnocchi : 1 (8 ounce) container ricotta cheese 2 eggs 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 cup all-purpose flour , or as needed Sauce : 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 (15.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 dash crushed red pepper flakes (optional) 6 basil leaves , finely shredded Salt and pepper to taste 8 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese , cut into small chunks  | Stir together the ricotta cheese , eggs , Parmesan Cheese , salt , pepper , and garlic powder in a large bowl until evenly combined . Mix in 1 cup of flour . Add additional flour if needed to form a soft dough . Divide the dough into 3 or 4 pieces , and roll into 1/2-inch-thick ropes on a floured surface . Cut each rope into 1-inch pieces , and place on a lightly floured baking sheet . Place in the refrigerator until ready to use . Heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat . Stir in garlic , and cook until softened and fragrant , about 1 minute . Pour in diced tomatoes and red pepper flakes ; bring to a simmer over medium-high heat , and cook for 10 minutes . Stir in shredded basil and season to taste with salt and pepper . While sauce is simmering , bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil over high heat . Boil the gnocchi until they float to the surface , 1 to 2 minutes , then drain . To assemble the dish , stir the cubed mozzarella cheese into the sauce and allow the heat of the sauce to soften , but not melt the cheese . Place gnocchi into a serving bowl , and spoon sauce overtop . 
1 pound rigatoni pasta 1 pound ground beef 1 pound Italian sausage 1 (8 ounce) can mushrooms , drained 2 (32 ounce) jars spaghetti sauce 1 1/2 pounds shredded mozzarella cheese thinly sliced pepperoni  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to boil . Pour in rigatoni , and cook until al dente , about 8 to 10 minutes . Drain , and set pasta aside . Meanwhile , brown ground beef and italian sausage in a large skillet over medium heat . With a slotted spoon , remove beef and sausage to a baking dish . Stir mushrooms , spaghetti sauce , and cooked pasta into the baking dish . Sprinkle cheese and pepperoni over the top . Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is brown and bubbly , about 20 minutes . 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour , or as needed 1 envelope Fleischmann's® RapidRise Yeast* 3/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup very warm water (120 degrees F to 130 degrees F) 2 tablespoons olive or vegetable oil Cornmeal  | In a large bowl , combine 2 cups flour , undissolved yeast , and salt . Stir very warm water and olive oil into flour mixture . Stir in enough remaining flour to make soft dough . Knead on lightly floured surface until smooth and elastic , about 4 to 6 minutes . Cover ; let rest on floured surface 10 minutes . Lightly oil 1 (14-inch) or 2 (12-inch) round pizza pan(s).** Sprinkle with cornmeal . Shape dough into smooth ball . Divide and roll dough to fit desired pan(s) . Top pizza as desired . Bake at 400 degrees F for 20 to 30 minutes or until done . Baking time depends on size and thickness of crust and selected toppings . 
2 large tomatoes , coarsely chopped 1/2 sweet onion , chopped 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon chopped fresh oregano 1 teaspoon chopped fresh basil 2 teaspoons chopped fresh parsley 1/2 (1 pound) loaf Italian bread , cut into 1 inch slices 1/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , combine tomatoes , onion , olive oil , oregano , basil and parsley . Place bread on a baking sheet , and top with tomato mixture . Sprinkle with Parmesan . Bake in preheated oven for 8 to 10 minutes , or until bottom of bread is browned . Allow to cool 5 minutes before serving . 
4 (4 ounce) fillets tilapia salt and pepper to taste 4 tablespoons butter 3 cloves garlic , pressed 4 fresh basil leaves , chopped 1 large tomato , chopped 1 cup white wine  | Preheat a grill for medium-high heat . Place the tilapia fillets side by side on a large piece of aluminum foil . Season each one with salt and pepper . Place one tablespoon of butter on top of each piece of fish , and sprinkle garlic , basil and tomato . Pour the wine over everything . Fold foil up around fish , and seal into a packet . Place packet on a cookie sheet for ease in transportation to and from the grill . Place foil packet on the preheated grill , and cook for 15 minutes , or until fish flakes easily with a fork . Open the packet carefully so as not to get burned from the steam , and serve . 
20 lasagna noodles 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 cup chopped fresh mushrooms 1 cup chopped onion 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 cups fresh spinach 3 cups ricotta cheese 2/3 cup grated Romano cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon dried basil leaves 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 egg 3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 3 cups tomato pasta sauce 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Add lasagna noodles and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente ; drain . In a skillet over medium-high heat , cook mushrooms , onions , and garlic in olive oil until onions are tender . Drain excess liquid and cool . Boil spinach for 5 minutes . Drain , then squeeze out excess liquid . Chop spinach . Combine ricotta cheese , Romano cheese , spinach , salt , oregano , basil , pepper , and egg in a bowl . Add cooled mushroom mixture . Beat with an electric mixer on low speed for 1 minute . Lay 5 lasagna noodles in bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Spread one third of the cheese/spinach mixture over noodles . Sprinkle 1 cup mozzarella cheese and 1/3 cup Parmesan cheese on top . Spread 1 cup pasta sauce over cheese . Repeat layering 2 times . Cover dish with aluminum foil and bake in a preheated oven for 1 hour . Cool 15 minutes before serving . 
1/4 cup fine dry bread crumbs 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 1 tablespoon cornmeal 1 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 teaspoon Italian seasoning 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper 4 (3 ounce) fillets cod fillets 1 egg white , lightly beaten  | Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . In a small shallow bowl , stir together the bread crumbs , cheese , cornmeal , oil , italian seasoning , garlic powder and pepper ; set aside . Coat the rack of a broiling pan with cooking spray . Place the cod on the rack , folding under any thin edges of the filets . Brush with the egg white , then spoon the crumb mixture evenly on top . Bake in a preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes or until the fish flakes easily when tested with a fork and is opaque all the way through . 
2 cups all-purpose flour for coating 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 (4 pound) chicken , cut into pieces 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 cup white wine 2 cups fresh mushrooms , quartered salt and pepper to taste  | Combine the flour , salt and pepper in a plastic bag . Shake the chicken pieces in flour until coated . Heat the oil in a large skillet (one that has a cover/lid) . Fry the chicken pieces until they are browned on both sides . Remove from skillet . Add the onion , garlic and bell pepper to the skillet and saute until the onion is slightly browned . Return the chicken to the skillet and add the tomatoes , oregano and wine . Cover and simmer for 30 minutes over medium low heat . Add the mushrooms and salt and pepper to taste . Simmer for 10 more minutes . 
2 tomatoes , cubed 1 teaspoon dried basil 4 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 clove garlic , crushed seasoning salt to taste ground black pepper to taste  | In a medium bowl , mix tomatoes , dried basil , Parmesan cheese , olive oil , garlic , seasoning salt and ground black pepper . Cover and chill in the refrigerator 8 hours , or overnight , before serving . 
Marinara Sauce : 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 cloves garlic , peeled and coarsely chopped 1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil 1 teaspoon red wine vinegar 1 teaspoon white sugar 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes salt and pepper to taste Grinders : 1 tablespoon butter 2 medium zucchini , cubed 1 pinch red pepper flakes salt and pepper to taste 1 1/2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 4 (6 inch) French or Italian sandwich rolls , split  | To make marinara sauce , heat olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat (see Cook's Note) . Add garlic , basil and red pepper flakes ; cook and stir for a minute or two until fragrant . Stir in sugar , vinegar , salt , and pepper . Pour in tomatoes with their juices and simmer over low heat for 15 minutes . Remove from heat and puree until smooth in food processor or blender . Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Melt butter in a skillet over medium heat . Cook the zucchini in butter until browned and slightly tender . Season with red pepper flakes , salt , and pepper . Spoon a generous amount of the zucchini mixture into each sandwich roll . Cover zucchini with about 1/4 cup marinara sauce per roll . Top with a handful of shredded mozzarella . Close the rolls , and wrap individually in aluminum foil . Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven , until bread is heated through , rolls are soft , and cheese is melted . 
3 pounds beef chuck roast 3 (1 ounce) packages dry Italian salad dressing mix 1 cup water 1 (16 ounce) jar pepperoncini peppers 8 hamburger buns , split  | Place the roast into a slow cooker , and season with Italian dressing mix . Pour in the water . Cover , and cook on High for 6 to 7 hours . During the last hour , shred the meat with two forks - if it does not shred easily , cook longer . Add the peppers , and as much of the juice as you like for additional flavor . Serve on buns . 
Lemon Butter Sauce : 1/4 cup white wine 5 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 5 tablespoons heavy cream 1 cup butter , chilled salt and pepper to taste Chicken and Pasta : 1/2 pound dry farfalle (bow tie) pasta 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - pounded to 1/4 inch thickness 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon butter 1/4 cup all-purpose flour salt and pepper to taste 4 ounces bacon 6 ounces mushrooms , sliced 6 ounces artichoke hearts , drained and halved 2 teaspoons capers , drained chopped fresh parsley for garnish  | To make the sauce , pour the wine and lemon juice into a saucepan over medium heat . Cook at a low boil until the liquid is reduced by 1/3 . Stir in cream , and simmer until it thickens . Gradually add the butter 1 tablespoon at a time to the sauce , stirring until completely incorporated . Season with salt and pepper . Remove from heat , and keep warm . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to boil . Add pasta , and cook until al dente , about 8 to 10 minutes . Drain , and set aside . To make the chicken , heat oil and 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat . In a bowl , stir together flour , salt , and pepper . Lightly coat chicken with flour mixture . Without crowding , carefully place chicken in hot oil . (If necessary , cook in batches.) Fry until cooked through and golden brown on both sides . Remove the chicken to paper towels . Stir the bacon , mushrooms , artichokes , and capers into the oil ; cook until the mushrooms are soft . Cut the chicken breasts into bite-size strips , and return them to the skillet . Stir half of the lemon butter sauce into the chicken mixture . To serve , place pasta in a large bowl . Stir the chicken mixture into the pasta . Taste , and adjust seasonings . Stir in additional lemon butter sauce as desired . Toss well , and garnish with parsley . 
1/2 pound ground beef 1/2 pound Italian sausage , casings removed 1 (16 ounce) jar marinara sauce 1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms 1 (14.5 ounce) can Italian-style diced tomatoes , undrained 1 (9 ounce) package refrigerated or fresh cheese tortellini 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Crumble the ground beef and Italian sausage into a large skillet . Cook over medium-high heat until browned . Drain . Combine the ground meats , marinara sauce , mushrooms , and tomatoes in a slow cooker . Cover , and cook on LOW heat for 7 to 8 hours . Stir in the tortellini , and sprinkle the mozzarella and cheddar cheese over the top . Cover and cook for 15 more minutes on LOW , or until the tortellini is tender . 
1 cup flat beer 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 2 1/4 teaspoons yeast  | Put beer , butter , sugar , salt , flour , and yeast in a bread machine in the order recommended by the manufacturer . Select Dough setting , and press Start . Remove dough from bread machine when cycle is complete . Roll or press dough to cover a prepared pizza pan . Brush lightly with olive oil . Cover and let stand 15 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Spread sauce and toppings on top of dough . Bake until crust is lightly brown and crispy on the outside , about 24 minutes . 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1/2 small red onion , diced 1 bunch Swiss chard , stems and center ribs cut out and chopped together , leaves coarsely chopped separately 1/2 cup dry white wine 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice , or to taste 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese salt to taste (optional)  | Melt butter and olive oil together in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in the garlic and onion , and cook for 30 seconds until fragrant . Add the chard stems and the white wine . Simmer until the stems begin to soften , about 5 minutes . Stir in the chard leaves , and cook until wilted . Finally , stir in lemon juice and Parmesan cheese ; season to taste with salt if needed . 
1/3 cup butter , softened 2/3 cup white sugar 2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips 1/4 cup chopped walnuts 1 egg yolk , beaten 1 tablespoon water  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease baking sheets , or line with parchment paper . In a large bowl , cream together the butter and sugar until smooth . Beat in the eggs one at a time , then stir in the vanilla . Combine the flour , cocoa and baking powder ; stir into the creamed mixture until well blended . Dough will be stiff , so mix in the last bit by hand . Mix in the chocolate chips and walnuts . Divide dough into two equal parts . Shape into 9x2x1 inch loaves . Place onto baking sheet 4 inches apart . Brush with mixture of water and yolk . Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until firm . Cool on baking sheet for 30 minutes . Using a serrated knife , slice the loaves diagonally into 1 inch slices . Return the slices to the baking sheet , placing them on their sides . Bake for 10 to 15 minutes on each side , or until dry . Cool completely and store in an airtight container . 
1 (15 ounce) container ricotta cheese 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach , thawed and squeezed dry 1/2 cup minced onion 1 egg 2 teaspoons minced fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon pepper 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1 1/2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese , divided 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese , divided 2 (26 ounce) jars spaghetti sauce 1 1/2 cups water 1 (8 ounce) package manicotti shells  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large bowl , combine ricotta , spinach , onion and egg . Season with parsley , pepper and garlic powder . Mix in 1 cup mozzarella and 1/4 cup Parmesan . In a separate bowl , stir together spaghetti sauce and water . Spread 1 cup sauce in the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Stuff uncooked manicotti shells with ricotta mixture , and arrange in a single layer in the dish . Cover with remaining sauce . Sprinkle with remaining mozzarella and Parmesan . Bake in preheated oven for 45 to 55 minutes , or until noodles are soft . 
1 1/2 pounds ground beef 1 1/4 cups Italian seasoned bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 medium yellow onion , chopped 1 egg , beaten 1 (28 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce 1 (16 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 (14.25 ounce) can tomato puree  | In a bowl , mix the ground beef , bread crumbs , parsley , garlic , onion , and egg . Shape the mixture into 16 meatballs . In a slow cooker , mix the spaghetti sauce , crushed tomatoes , and tomato puree . Place the meatballs into the sauce mixture . Cook on Low for 6 to 8 hours . 
1 cup vegetable broth 12 dehydrated sun-dried tomatoes 1 (8 ounce) package uncooked penne pasta 2 tablespoons pine nuts 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1 clove garlic , minced 1 bunch fresh spinach , rinsed and torn into bite-size pieces 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese  | In a small saucepan , bring the broth to a boil . Remove from heat . Place the sun-dried tomatoes in the broth 15 minutes , or until softened . Drain , reserving broth , and coarsely chop . Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil . Place penne pasta in the pot , cook 9 to 12 minutes , until al dente , and drain . Place the pine nuts in a skillet over medium heat . Cook and stir until lightly toasted . Heat the olive oil and red pepper flakes in a skillet over medium heat , and saute the garlic 1 minute , until tender . Mix in the spinach , and cook until almost wilted . Pour in the reserved broth , and stir in the chopped sun-dried tomatoes . Continue cooking 2 minutes , or until heated through . In a large bowl , toss the cooked pasta with the spinach and tomato mixture and pine nuts . Serve with Parmesan cheese . 
