2 tablespoons lard 1/2 onion , sliced 2 cloves garlic , sliced 1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon cumin seeds 2 poblano peppers , seeded and thinly sliced 2 Anaheim peppers , seeded and thinly sliced 4 skinless , boneless chicken thighs , cut into chunks 4 cups chicken broth 2 cups chicken broth 4 dried guajillo chiles , stemmed and seeded 2 dried ancho chiles , stemmed and seeded 1 corn tortilla , cut into 1-inch strips 4 tomatoes , cut in half crosswise 3 tomatillos , cut in half crosswise 2 tablespoons lard 1/2 onion , sliced 5 cloves garlic , sliced 2 teaspoons cumin seeds 2 cups chicken broth salt to taste 1 teaspoon white sugar , or more to taste 3 ounces dark chocolate , coarsely chopped 12 corn tortillas 1/2 bunch fresh cilantro , coarsely chopped 1/2 cup crumbled queso fresco  | Melt 2 tablespoons lard in a stockpot . Stir in 1/2 onion , 2 cloves garlic , 1 teaspoon salt , 1 tablespoon cumin seeds , poblano peppers , and Anaheim peppers ; cook and stir until onions are soft , 5 to 8 minutes . Add chicken thighs and 4 cups chicken broth , cover , and simmer until reduced , about 40 minutes . Heat 2 cups chicken broth in a saucepan until it begins to simmer , about 5 minutes . Pour broth into a blender . Toast guajillo chiles and ancho chiles in a dry skillet on medium-high heat until hot and aromatic , 3 to 4 minutes . Place toasted chiles and tortilla strips in the blender with the hot broth . Press them down so they are fully submerged and soak until softened , about 10 minutes . Blend the chile and tortilla mixture until smooth . Cook tomatoes and tomatillos in a dry skillet on medium-high heat until soft and blackened , 3 to 4 minutes per side . Melt 2 tablespoons lard in a large skillet over medium heat . Stir in 1/2 sliced onion , 5 garlic cloves , 2 teaspoons cumin seeds ; cook and stir until onions are soft and golden , 5 to 8 minutes . Add onion mixture to the blender with the chile mixture and blend until smooth . Pour chile puree into a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in 2 cups chicken broth , salt , sugar , and chocolate . Bring mixture to a simmer ; cook and stir until chocolate is melted , about 5 minutes . Toast tortillas in a dry skillet over medium heat until golden and soft , 2 to 3 minutes per side . Fill each tortilla with 1/3 cup chicken mixture . Roll and place seam side down on a plate . Continue with remaining tortillas , 3 per plate . Top each trio of tortillas with 1/3 cup mole sauce , 1 to 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro , and 1 to 2 tablespoons queso fresco . 
6 fluid ounces tequila 2 fluid ounces triple sec 8 ounces frozen sliced strawberries in syrup 4 fluid ounces frozen limeade concentrate  | Fill a blender with ice and crush . Pour in the tequila and triple sec . Add the strawberries and limeade . Blend for 30 seconds or until smooth . Serve in margarita glasses with the rims dipped in powdered sugar . 
3 avocados - peeled , pitted , and mashed 1 lime , juiced 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup diced onion 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 roma (plum) tomatoes , diced 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper (optional)  | In a medium bowl , mash together the avocados , lime juice , and salt . Mix in onion , cilantro , tomatoes , and garlic . Stir in cayenne pepper . Refrigerate 1 hour for best flavor , or serve immediately . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 1/2 pounds cubed pork stew meat salt and pepper to taste 1 large yellow onion , diced 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups chopped , roasted green chiles 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes with juice 1 1/2 cups tomatillo salsa 5 cups chicken broth 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1 pinch ground cloves  | Heat the olive oil in a Dutch oven or large pot over medium-high heat . Season the pork with salt and pepper to taste , then place into the hot oil . Cook until golden brown on all sides , about 7 minutes . Once browned , remove the pork and set aside . Reduce heat to medium , and stir in the onion and garlic . Cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Return the pork to the pot , and stir in the green chiles , diced tomatoes with juice , tomatillo salsa , and chicken broth . Season with oregano and clove . Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes . After 20 minutes , remove 2 cups of the soup (ensure there are no pork cubes in it) , and pour into a blender . Hold down the lid of the blender with a folded kitchen towel , and carefully start the blender , using a few quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree . Puree until smooth , then pour back into the cooking pot . This will create a thicker texture for your chili and will eliminate some of the chunky bits of chiles . Continue to simmer , stirring occasionally until the pork is very tender , at least 35 minutes more . 
6 fluid ounces tequila 2 fluid ounces triple sec 8 ounces frozen sliced strawberries in syrup 4 fluid ounces frozen limeade concentrate  | Fill a blender with ice and crush . Pour in the tequila and triple sec . Add the strawberries and limeade . Blend for 30 seconds or until smooth . Serve in margarita glasses with the rims dipped in powdered sugar . 
1 (3 1/2) pound boneless pork shoulder , trimmed and cut into 2 inch chunks 2 oranges , quartered 1 large white onion , quartered 6 cloves garlic , peeled and crushed 1/4 cup kosher salt 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns 2 bay leaves  | Place the pork shoulder , oranges , onion , garlic , kosher salt , cumin , black peppercorns , and bay leaves into a large Dutch oven . Add water to cover . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce the heat to medium-low , and simmer for 10 minutes . Skim off any foam that rises to the top . Cover loosely , and simmer until the meat is tender , about 1 1/2 hours . Allow the pork to cool , covered , in the broth for 1 hour . Shred the meat with two forks . 
2 cloves garlic 3 serrano peppers 1 pound small green tomatillos , husks removed 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 9 corn tortillas 3 cups water 4 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 store-bought rotisserie chicken , meat removed and shredded 1/4 head iceberg lettuce , shredded 1 cup cilantro leaves 1 (8 ounce) container Mexican crema , crema fresca 1 cup grated cotija cheese  | Cover a large griddle with aluminum foil and preheat to medium-high . Cook the garlic , serrano peppers , and tomatillos on the hot griddle until toasted and blackened , turning occasionally , about 5 minutes for the garlic , 10 minutes for the peppers , and 15 minutes for the tomatillos . Remove to a bowl and allow to cool . Heat oil in a small , deep skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Using kitchen tongs , fry the tortillas individually , turning them once . They shouldn't be in the hot oil for more than 5 seconds per side . Remove excess oil with paper towels and keep warm . Remember that the hotter the oil , the less that the tortillas will absorb . Place the toasted garlic , serrano peppers , tomatillos , and the water in a blender and blend until smooth ; pour into a saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil . Dissolve the chicken bouillon into the mixture , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook at a simmer until slightly thickened , about 10 minutes . The sauce shouldn't be too thick . Soak three tortillas in the sauce , one at a time , for a few seconds , fill them with shredded chicken , sprinkle the meat with some of the sauce , roll them and place them seam side down on a pasta bowl . Spoon a generous amount of sauce over them and top them with lettuce , cilantro , crema , and cotija cheese . Pour a little more sauce over the whole thing if desired . Repeat the procedure twice more . Serve immediately . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2/3 cup diced onion 1 1/2 cups uncooked white rice 1 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 1/2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 2 teaspoons salt 1 clove garlic , minced 1/8 teaspoon powdered saffron 3 cups water  | In a large saucepan , heat vegetable oil over a medium-low heat . Place the onions in the pan , and saute until golden . Add rice to pan , and stir to coat grains with oil . Mix in green bell pepper , cumin , chili powder , tomato sauce , salt , garlic , saffron , and water . Cover , bring to a boil , and then reduce heat to simmer . Cook for 30 to 40 minutes , or until rice is tender . Stir occasionally . 
2 1/2 cups fresh corn kernels 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/4 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1 pound zucchini , sliced 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped 1 fresh poblano chile pepper - seeded , deveined , and chopped salt and black pepper to taste 1/4 cup crumbled cotija cheese  | Place the corn in a saucepan with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil . Place a cover on the saucepan , reduce heat to medium , and cook until tender , about 10 minutes . Drain . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; cook and stir the onion and garlic in the hot oil until fragrant , about 5 minutes . Mix the zucchini and tomato into the onion and garlic ; cook together 5 minutes . Stir the corn kernels into the mixture ; add the poblano pepper . Season with salt and pepper ; stir . Cover the skillet with a lid and cook until the zucchini is tender , about 10 minutes . Sprinkle with the cotija cheese to serve . 
1 cup butter 1/2 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 2 teaspoons water 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup chopped almonds 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar  | In a medium bowl , cream the butter and sugar . Stir in vanilla and water . Add the flour and almonds , mix until blended . Cover and chill for 3 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Shape dough into balls or crescents . Place on an unprepared cookie sheet and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove from pan to cool on wire racks . When cookies are cool , roll in confectioners' sugar . Store at room temperature in an airtight container . 
10 cups water 2 tablespoons lard 2 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 2 teaspoons salt  | Measure water and lard into a large pot . Bring to a boil and add beans . Cook over medium heat for 2 to 2 1/2 hours . Season with salt and continue cooking until tender , about 30 more minutes . 
1 cup water 1/2 cup white sugar 3 avocados , peeled and pitted 1 lime , juiced 1/4 teaspoon salt  | Bring water and sugar to a boil together in a saucepan ; stir continually until sugar dissolves . Set aside to cool . Pour sugar-water mixture into a blender with avocados , lime juice , and salt ; blend until smooth . Pour the mixture into 10 ice pop molds . Freeze until solid yet still soft , about 2 hours ; insert wooden sticks and continue freezing until firm , 12 to 24 hours . 
1 tablespoon chili powder 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon paprika 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon sea salt 1 teaspoon black pepper  | In a small bowl , mix together chili powder , garlic powder , onion powder , red pepper flakes , oregano , paprika , cumin , salt and pepper . Store in an airtight container . 
cooking spray 1 (12 ounce) can low-sodium canned luncheon meat (such as SPAM®) 1/2 (1 ounce) envelope taco seasoning mix 2 tablespoons water , or as needed 1 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 (8 ounce) package shredded lettuce 8 ounces block Cheddar cheese , grated 1 small tomato , diced 1 small onion , diced 2 (2.5 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained  | Spray a large skillet with cooking spray and place over medium-high heat ; add luncheon meat . Cook and stir until lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Add taco seasoning mix ; stir to coat . Pour in water ; cook and stir until water is evaporated , 2 to 3 minutes . Turn heat to low to keep luncheon meat warm . Spray a separate skillet with cooking spray and place over medium-high heat ; add 1 tortilla and cook until heated through , about 1 minute per side . Repeat with remaining tortillas . Layer luncheon meat , lettuce , Cheddar cheese , tomato , onion , and black olives onto each tortilla . 
1 chorizo sausage link , casing removed and meat crumbled 2 tablespoons chipotle peppers in adobo sauce 4 corn tortillas 2 tablespoons chopped onion , or to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro , or to taste (optional)  | Mix chorizo and chipotle peppers in adobo sauce together in a bowl . Heat a skillet over medium-high heat ; add chorizo mixture and cook until crisp , 5 to 7 minutes . Transfer chorizo to a plate , reserving grease in the skillet . Heat tortillas in the reserved grease in skillet over medium heat until warmed , 1 to 2 minutes per side . Stack 2 tortillas on top of each other for each taco . Fill with chorizo , onion , and cilantro . 
1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro , divided 3 tablespoons chili powder 4 large cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon lime juice 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 pound frozen shrimp - thawed , peeled , deveined , and cleaned cooking spray 1 onion , sliced into rings and rings separated 1 large green bell pepper , sliced into strips 1 serrano chile pepper , sliced , or more to taste 4 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese , or to taste 1/2 cup shredded lettuce , or to taste 1/4 cup sour cream , or to taste 1/4 cup chopped tomatoes , or to taste  | Whisk olive oil , 1/4 cup cilantro , chili powder , garlic , lime juice , and salt together in a bowl ; add shrimp , toss to coat , and marinate in the refrigerator for 20 minutes . Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat ; spray with cooking spray . Add onion , green bell pepper , and serrano chile pepper ; saute until tender , 10 to 12 minutes . Transfer vegetables to a bowl and cover with aluminum foil to keep warm . Pour shrimp and marinade into the same skillet over medium-high heat ; cook until shrimp are pink and opaque , about 2 minutes per side . Stir vegetables into shrimp mixture ; cook and stir until heated through , 2 to 3 minutes . Spoon shrimp-vegetable mixture onto tortillas and top each with Cheddar cheese , lettuce , sour cream , tomatoes , and remaining 1/4 cup cilantro . 
1 fresh pineapple - peeled , cored , and chopped 2 cups sliced strawberries 1/2 large cucumber , peeled and diced 1 mango , peeled and diced 1 lemon , juiced 1 pinch chile powder with lime (such as Tajin®) , or to taste  | Combine pineapple , strawberries , cucumber , and mango in a bowl ; add lemon juice and mix well . Sprinkle chile powder over the top and stir . Top salad with more chile powder . 
Salad : 1 head lettuce , chopped 1 (10 ounce) can corn , drained 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , drained and rinsed 1 large tomato , chopped 2 green onions , chopped 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1/4 cup diced green bell pepper 1 avocado , sliced 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1/2 cup crushed tortilla chips Dressing : 1/2 cup salsa 1/4 cup ranch-style salad dressing  | Layer lettuce , corn , black beans , tomato , green onions , cilantro , green bell pepper , avocado , Cheddar cheese , and tortilla chips , in this order , in a serving bowl . Stir ranch-style dressing and salsa together in a bowl ; pour over salad . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cut into strips 1 red bell pepper , sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1 yellow bell pepper , sliced 1 onion , sliced 1 tablespoon chili powder 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 6 cups milk 4 cups penne pasta 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 2 sliced green onions (optional)  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Cook and stir chicken strips until browned and cooked through , 5 to 8 minutes . Remove with a slotted spoon to a bowl . Cook red , green , and yellow bell peppers , and sliced in the pot until peppers are tender and onions are translucent , 5 to 7 minutes . Transfer chicken back to the pot . Add chili powder , cumin , garlic powder , salt , and pepper . Stir to coat chicken and vegetables evenly with seasonings . Pour milk into the pot and stir in pasta . Bring to a simmer ; cook until sauce thickens and pasta is tender yet firm to the bite , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove from heat . Stir Cheddar cheese into the pasta mixture until cheese is melted . Serve in bowls topped with sliced green onions . 
Marinade : 3 ancho chile peppers 1 cup white vinegar 15 whole black peppercorns 1 (1 inch) piece fresh ginger root 2 garlic cloves , peeled 3 whole cloves 1 pinch dried marjoram 1 pinch ground cumin 1 pinch dried thyme 4 1/2 pounds goat leg Meat Sauce : 2 pounds plum tomatoes 2 cups water 3 whole black peppercorns 2 garlic cloves , peeled 2 whole cloves 1 pinch dried marjoram 1 pinch dried thyme 1 pinch ground cumin salt to taste Hot Sauce : 30 chiles de arbol 1/4 cup white vinegar 10 whole black peppercorns 1 clove garlic , peeled 2 white onions , minced  | Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add ancho chile peppers and cook for 5 minutes . Remove from heat and let chiles soak in the hot water until soft , about 10 minutes ; drain . Blend softened chiles , 1 cup vinegar , 15 peppercorns , ginger , 2 garlic cloves , 3 cloves , 1 pinch marjoram , 1 pinch cumin , and 1 pinch thyme in a blender until marinade is smooth . Strain marinade into a bowl . Place goat in a bowl and pour in marinade , coating goat completely . Cover and refrigerate for 8 hours . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Transfer goat and marinade to a baking dish ; cover with a lid or aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until goat is very tender , about 3 1/2 hours . Remove lid or foil and cook until goat is browned , about 15 minutes . Pour meat juices into a container and reserve . Cover the goat to keep warm . Bring a large pot of water to a boil ; add tomatoes and boil until soft , 5 to 10 minutes . Drain and let tomatoes cool until easily handled . Peel tomatoes and place in blender with reserved goat juices , 2 cups water , 3 peppercorns , 2 garlic cloves , 2 cloves , 1 pinch marjoram , 1 pinch thyme , and 1 pinch cumin . Blend until meat sauce is smooth . Pour meat sauce into a small saucepan and season with salt ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat and simmer over low heat . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; add chiles de arbol and boil until soft , about 5 minutes . Drain . Blend softened chiles with 1/4 cup vinegar , 10 peppercorns , 1 garlic clove , and salt until hot sauce is smooth . Strain into a glass . Cut goat into bite-sized pieces and serve with a generous amount of meat sauce and hot sauce on the side . Sprinkle onion over goat . 
1 tomato 3 dried guajillo chile peppers , seeded 2 dried ancho chile peppers , seeded 1 pineapple , sliced 3/4-inch thick 1/2 cup orange juice 1 onion , quartered 1/4 cup white vinegar 2 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce 1 tablespoon salt , or to taste 2 cloves garlic , crushed 3 cloves 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 (2 pound) pork tenderloin , cut into thin slices To Serve : 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Cook tomato on a ridged grill pan over medium-high heat until slightly blackened , about 5 minutes . Remove from heat and cool until easily handled . Peel off skin and remove seeds . Bring a small pot of water to a boil . Add guajillo and ancho chile peppers ; cook until softened , about 5 minutes . Drain . Combine tomato flesh , softened chile peppers , 2 slices pineapple , orange juice , quartered onion , vinegar , chipotle peppers , salt , garlic , cloves , cumin seeds , and oregano in a blender ; blend until smooth . Arrange pork slices in a glass or ceramic baking dish . Pour blended mixture over pork , ensuring all sides are evenly coated . Cover baking dish with plastic wrap . Marinate pork in the refrigerator , 4 hours to overnight . Cook remaining pineapple slices on a ridged grill pan over medium-high heat until slightly blackened and soft , about 5 minutes per side . Chop into small pieces . Wipe out grill pan and preheat over medium-high heat . Cook marinated pork in the hot pan , turning once , until browned , 4 to 5 minutes . Chop pork coarsely into small pieces against the grain . Serve with pineapple , chopped onion , and cilantro . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 onion , chopped 2 cloves garlic , diced 2 pounds plum tomatoes , peeled , seeded , and chopped 1 red bell pepper , seeded and chopped 1 cup tomato puree 1 teaspoon salt 1 cube fish bouillon 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 bay leaves 20 pitted green olives 2 tablespoons capers , rinsed 1/4 cup butter 8 large white fish fillets 6 pickled banana peppers , sliced  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease a rectangular baking dish large enough to fit the fish fillets in a single layer . Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Cook and stir onion and garlic until softened , about 5 minutes . Stir in plum tomatoes and red bell pepper ; simmer until softened , about 5 minutes . Stir in tomato puree ; cook for 3 to 5 minutes . Stir salt , bouillon cube , oregano , cinnamon , pepper , and bay leaves into the saucepan . Cook until flavors combine , about 10 minutes . Add olives and capers ; simmer for 5 minutes . Remove sauce from heat . Melt butter in a separate skillet over medium heat . Season fish fillets with salt and pepper ; cook in the hot butter until browned , 1 to 2 minutes per side . Lay fish fillets in the baking dish in a single layer ; cover with sauce . Arrange sliced peppers on top . Cover baking dish tightly with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until fish flakes easily with a fork , 10 to 15 minutes . 
4 poblano peppers 2 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 ear fresh corn , kernels cut off 1 tablespoon butter 1 small onion , sliced 2 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream 4 1/2 ounces Mexican manchego cheese , grated  | Preheat oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil and add poblano peppers . Brush peppers with 1 tablespoon vegetable oil . Roast poblano peppers in the preheated oven for 20 minutes ; flip and continue roasting until skin is charred and flesh is soft , about 20 minutes more . Place roasted peppers in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap ; let steam for 10 to 15 minutes . Carefully remove plastic wrap and peel the skins from the peppers and remove seeds and stems . Cut peppers into strips . Bring a pot of water to a boil ; cook corn kernels until soft , about 10 minutes . Drain . Heat 1 tablespoon vegetable oil and butter in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook and stir onion until soft , 5 to 10 minutes . Add poblano pepper strips and corn ; season with chicken bouillon granules and cook for 3 minutes . Reduce heat to medium-low and stir in cream and manchego cheese ; simmer until cheese melts , about 5 minutes . 
1 pound shredded , cooked chicken 1 (15 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes , mashed 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 1 medium onion , chopped 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 cups water 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth 1 teaspoon cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 1 bay leaf 1 (10 ounce) package frozen corn 1 tablespoon chopped cilantro 7 corn tortillas vegetable oil  | Place chicken , tomatoes , enchilada sauce , onion , green chiles , and garlic into a slow cooker . Pour in water and chicken broth , and season with cumin , chili powder , salt , pepper , and bay leaf . Stir in corn and cilantro . Cover , and cook on Low setting for 6 to 8 hours or on High setting for 3 to 4 hours . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly brush both sides of tortillas with oil . Cut tortillas into strips , then spread on a baking sheet . Bake in preheated oven until crisp , about 10 to 15 minutes . To serve , sprinkle tortilla strips over soup . 
2 cups fresh sweet corn kernels 1 cup milk 1 cup butter , melted and cooled 1 cup white sugar 4 eggs 2 cups pancake mix , sifted  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour a 9x13-inch baking dish . Combine corn , milk , butter , sugar , and eggs in a blender ; blend until smooth . Pour mixture into a bowl ; stir in pancake mix until batter is well blended . Pour batter into the prepared baking dish . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean , about 45 minutes . 
1 guava - peeled , halved , and seeded 1 cup chopped piloncillo (Mexican brown sugar cones) 1/2 orange , zested 2 cinnamon sticks 5 whole cloves 5 whole allspice berries 14 fluid ounces water 3/4 cup lard 1 baguette , cut into 1/2-inch slices 10 tablespoons roasted peanuts 1/2 cup raisins 7 tablespoons pecans 7 tablespoons dried pineapple pieces (optional) 3 ounces crumbled cotija cheese 1 tablespoon multi-colored sprinkles , or to taste  | Combine guava , piloncillo , orange zest , cinnamon sticks , cloves , and allspice in a saucepan ; add water . Bring liquid to a boil ; reduce heat and simmer until a syrup forms , about 10 minutes . Strain syrup into a bowl . Melt lard in a skillet over medium-high heat ; fry baguette slices , working in batches , until golden brown , about 2 minutes per side . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate . Arrange a layer of fried bread in a baking dish ; top with half of the raisins , half of the pecans , half of the pineapple , and half of the cotija cheese . Drizzle half of the syrup over the top . Repeat layering with remaining fried bread , raisins , pineapple , cotija cheese , and syrup . Top with sprinkles . Let stand until bread has absorbed the syrup , 1 to 2 hours . 
1/2 cup unsalted butter , softened 1/2 cup white sugar 2 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 1/2 cups rice flour 1/4 cup dark cocoa powder 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/4 teaspoon baking soda 1/4 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line 12 muffin cups with paper liners . Beat butter and sugar together in the bowl of a stand mixer or using an electric hand mixer on high speed until creamy and fluffy . Add eggs , 1 at a time , beating well after each addition . Add vanilla extract and mix well . Mix rice flour , cocoa powder , baking powder , cinnamon , cayenne pepper , and baking soda into creamed butter mixture and mix on low speed until flour is moistened ; increase speed to medium and mix until there are no longer lumps . Reduce mixer speed to low and add milk ; mix until batter is well blended . Fill each prepared muffin cup with about 3 tablespoons batter . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean , 18 to 20 minutes . 
1 vanilla bean 1 teaspoon Urfa biber (Turkish chile pepper) 6 cups milk 1 cinnamon stick 8 ounces bittersweet chocolate 2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 cup whipped cream , or to taste 1 tablespoon grated bittersweet chocolate  | Split vanilla bean lengthwise with the tip of a sharp knife . Place Urfa biber in a tea infuser . Combine vanilla bean , Urfa biber , milk , and cinnamon stick in a pot . Cook over medium heat , stirring occasionally , until milk is steaming and small bubbles appear , 4 to 5 minutes . Remove Urfa biber . Reduce heat to low . Add chocolate and sugar ; stir until chocolate is melted , about 2 minutes . Remove cinnamon stick and vanilla bean . Pour into cups and top with a dollop of whipped cream . Garnish with bittersweet chocolate . 
1 (12 ounce) package Johnsonville® Original , Brown Sugar & Honey , or Vermont Maple Syrup Breakfast Sausage links 4 (6 inch) Mission® Super Soft Flour Tortillas 1/4 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 3 tablespoons red pepper jelly 2 tablespoons sliced green onions  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F . Arrange sausage in an 8-in . square nonstick baking pan . Bake sausage according to package directions . Remove sausage from baking pan ; set aside . Cut tortillas into four equal quarters ; cover with plastic wrap . Place one tortilla wedge on a work surface ; place one sausage link on wide end of wedge . Brush pointed end of tortilla with water ; roll up and press to seal . Place in pan , seam side down . Repeat with remaining sausage links . Bake for 5 minutes . Turn seam side up and sprinkle with cheese . Bake 3 minutes longer or until cheese is melted . Cool slightly . Top with red pepper jelly and green onions . 
Crepes : 1 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup water 2 eggs 2 tablespoons butter , melted Filling : 1 (14 ounce) can pinto beans , drained 1 cup medium salsa (such as Que Pasa®) 1 cup canned whole tomatoes 1 cup drained whole kernel corn 2 teaspoons ground ginger 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Combine flour , milk , water , eggs , and melted butter in a large bowl ; beat with a wire whisk until crepe batter is free of lumps . Heat a nonstick skillet over medium heat . Pour 1/4 cup of batter into the skillet ; cook until bubbles form on the surface , 2 to 3 minutes . Flip and cook crepe for 1 minute on the second side . Transfer to a plate . Repeat with remaining crepe batter . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper . Pour pinto beans into a small saucepan over medium heat ; cook until heated through , about 5 minutes . Remove from heat and let cool slightly . Mash into a fine puree using a potato masher . Combine salsa , tomatoes , corn , ginger , and chili powder in a large bowl . Mix in pureed beans . Spoon some of the bean mixture into the center of each crepe . Roll up crepes , tucking ends in neatly . Place filled crepes seam-side down on the lined baking sheet . Sprinkle grated Monterey Jack cheese on top . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted , about 10 minutes . 
2 (16 ounce) cans white hominy , drained water to cover 1 head garlic , cloves peeled salt to taste 2/3 pound pork shoulder , coarsely chopped 2/3 pound pork loin , coarsely chopped 2/3 pound pork legs , coarsely chopped 1 large plum tomato 4 ounces dried guajillo chiles , stemmed and seeded 1 clove garlic 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano 1 pinch ground cumin 2 cups water Toppings : 1 head iceberg lettuce , finely shredded 1 small onion , diced 4 limes , quartered  | Place hominy in a large pot ; cover with water . Add 1 head garlic and salt to taste . Cook over medium heat for 2 hours . Place pork shoulder , pork loin , and pork legs in the hominy mixture and cook until meat is tender and cooked through , about 1 hour . Place tomato and guajillo chiles in a pot and add enough water to cover ; bring to a boil . Cook until chiles have softened , 15 to 20 minutes . Drain . Place tomato and chiles with salt , 1 clove garlic , oregano , and cumin in a blender ; add 2 cups water . Blend until smooth . Strain mixture through a fine-mesh sieve and set chile sauce aside . Transfer pork to a work surface and shred with 2 forks . Pour chile sauce into hominy mixture ; bring to a boil . Return shredded pork to pot . Simmer pozole until flavors have blended , about 3 minutes . Ladle pozole into serving bowls and top with lettuce and onion and serve lime wedge on the side . 
cooking spray 1 (13 ounce) can Mexican cajeta caramel Cake : 1 (18.25 ounce) box devil's food cake mix 1 1/2 cups water 3 eggs 1/2 cup vegetable oil Flan : 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 5 eggs 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , at room temperature 1/2 cup whole milk 1 1/2 teaspoons Mexican vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spray a 15-cup fluted tube pan (such as Bundt(R)) with cooking spray . Pour cajeta into a microwave-safe bowl . Heat in the microwave until smooth , 20 to 30 seconds . Pour into the bottom of the prepared pan . Combine cake mix , water , 3 eggs , and vegetable oil in a large bowl ; beat with an electric mixer on low speed until moistened , about 30 seconds . Increase speed to medium and beat until batter is smooth , about 2 minutes . Pour cake batter over cajeta in the pan . Combine condensed milk , evaporated milk , 5 eggs , cream cheese , milk , and vanilla extract in a blender ; blend until smooth . Pour milk mixture slowly over cake batter . Wrap pan tightly with aluminum foil ; place in a large baking dish . Pour enough water into the baking dish to come 2 inches up the sides of the pan . Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean , about 2 hours . Remove pan from the baking dish ; let cool for 15 minutes . Unwrap the aluminum foil ; invert cake onto a large rimmed plate . Let cake cool completely , about 30 minutes . Chill before serving . 
1 pound white American cheese (such as Land O'Lakes®) , sliced 1 cup half-and-half , or as needed 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes , or to taste 2 tablespoons diced jalapeno pepper 1/8 teaspoon chili powder  | Place American cheese and about 1/4 cup half-and-half in a saucepan over low heat ; cook and stir until cheese starts to melt , about 5 minutes . Slowly start stirring half-and-half into cheese mixture , about 2 tablespoons at a time , until cheese begins to melt and mixture is smooth , about 5 minutes more . Continue adding more half-and-half . Season cheese mixture with cumin , black pepper , and salt ; add red pepper flakes , a little at a time , until desired spiciness is reached . Cook and stir cheese dip until cheese is fully melted , adding more half-and-half if needed to thin it out , 5 to 10 minutes more . Remove from heat and top dip with chili powder . 
3 quarts chicken broth , divided 1 large tomato , quartered salt and ground black pepper to taste 1 1/2 pounds ground chuck 1 hot pepper , diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 (8 ounce) package pepper Jack cheese , cubed 2 hard-boiled eggs , cut into small chunks (optional) 2 potatoes , peeled and cubed 1 onion , diced 1 cup uncooked white rice 1/2 cup chopped cilantro  | Combine 1 cup chicken broth and tomato in a blender ; blend until smooth . Transfer tomato mixture to a large pot ; add remaining 11 cups broth . Bring to a boil , skimming off any foam that rises to the top . Season broth with salt and pepper . Mix ground chuck , hot pepper , garlic , and cumin together in a bowl . Season with salt and pepper . Scoop ground chuck mixture into a small ball ; press 1 cube of pepper Jack cheese and 1 chunk of egg into the center and roll meatball to seal . Repeat with remaining chuck mixture , cheese , and eggs . Lower meatballs gently into the boiling broth . Add potatoes , onion , white rice , and cilantro . Simmer until meatballs are no long pink and potatoes and rice are tender , 20 to 30 minutes . 
2 kiwis , peeled and diced 2 Golden Delicious apples - peeled , cored and diced 8 ounces raspberries 1 pound strawberries 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon brown sugar 3 tablespoons fruit preserves , any flavor 10 (10 inch) flour tortillas butter flavored cooking spray 2 tablespoons cinnamon sugar  | In a large bowl , thoroughly mix kiwis , Golden Delicious apples , raspberries , strawberries , white sugar , brown sugar and fruit preserves . Cover and chill in the refrigerator at least 15 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Coat one side of each flour tortilla with butter flavored cooking spray . Cut into wedges and arrange in a single layer on a large baking sheet . Sprinkle wedges with desired amount of cinnamon sugar . Spray again with cooking spray . Bake in the preheated oven 8 to 10 minutes . Repeat with any remaining tortilla wedges . Allow to cool approximately 15 minutes . Serve with chilled fruit mixture . 
Stock : 1 gallon water 3 cups tomato sauce 1 yellow onion , quartered 4 tablespoons chicken bouillon (such as Knorr®) 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon dried oregano Meatballs : 3 pounds lean ground beef 3 eggs 1/2 cup tomato sauce 1/4 cup uncooked white rice 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 tablespoon seasoned salt (such as Season-All®) 1 tablespoon dried oregano leaves 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 10 small baby potatoes 5 large carrots , sliced diagonally 5 stalks celery , sliced diagonally 2 zucchini , chopped 2 cups thickly shredded green cabbage 1 lemon , sliced into wedges (optional) 2 avocados , chopped (optional) 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro (optional)  | Pour water into a large stockpot over high heat . Stir in 3 cups tomato sauce , yellow onion , chicken bouillon , garlic , and 1 tablespoon dried oregano . Bring broth to a slow boil . Combine ground beef , eggs , 1/2 cup tomato sauce , white rice , 1/4 cup cilantro , seasoned salt , 1 tablespoon dried oregano , onion powder , garlic powder , black pepper , and cumin in a large bowl . Squeeze mixture with your hands until thoroughly mixed . Scoop 1/4 cup of beef mixture and form in a ball . Lower gently into boiling broth . Repeat with remaining beef mixture . Stir potatoes , carrots , and celery into the broth . Cover and simmer until meatballs and potatoes are tender , about 30 minutes . Stir in zucchini and cabbage . Cover and simmer until cabbage is tender , about 10 minutes . Serve with a squeeze of lemon juice and garnish with avocado and 1/4 cup cilantro . 
Bread : 4 cups all-purpose flour 3 eggs 3 eggs , separated 2/3 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon warm water 2 (.25 ounce) packages dry yeast 1 orange , zested 1 lime , zested 1 pinch salt 1/2 cup butter , softened 1 tablespoon butter , softened Topping : 1/2 cup white sugar 1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 20 candied citrus peels  | Mix 4 cups flour , eggs , egg yolks , 2/3 cup white sugar , water , dry yeast , orange zest , lime zest , and salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a dough hook . Add 1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon butter ; mix until dough is elastic and shiny , about 5 minutes . Form dough into a ball . Cover and let rise in a warm place for 45 minutes . Punch down dough gently ; roll into a long cylinder . Join the ends of the cylinder together in the shape of an oval ring . Place ring on a greased baking sheet ; cover and let rise in a warm place for 45 minutes . Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Whisk eggs whites in a small bowl . Brush egg whites evenly over dough . Mix 1/2 cup white sugar and 1/4 cup butter in a small bowl with your fingers to form a paste . Add enough flour to give paste the consistency of Play-Doh(R) ; divide into 5 or 6 balls . Place each ball between two 3-inch squares of parchment paper . Press with the bottom of a 1-cup measuring cup to make a circle about 1/8 inch thick . Space circles evenly around the dough ring . Arrange candied citrus peels on top of the dough . Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown , about 20 minutes . Cool for 20 minutes before slicing . 
Dry Rub : 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon sweet paprika 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin Bowl Ingredients : 1/2 pound flank steak 1 cup cooked white rice 1 cup halved cherry tomatoes 1 cup chopped romaine lettuce 1 cup tortilla chips 1/2 cup canned black beans 1 jalapeno pepper , thinly sliced 1 lime , cut into wedges 1/4 cup crumbled cotija cheese 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro Avocado Cilantro Dressing : 2 avocados , peeled and pitted 1 cup water 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 2 tablespoons sour cream 1 lime , juiced 1 clove garlic 1 pinch salt  | Preheat a grill pan or skillet over medium-high heat until just barely smoking . Combine garlic powder , chili powder , kosher salt , paprika , and cumin in a bowl ; rub over all sides of flank steak . Grill flank steak in the preheated grill pan , flipping halfway through , until browned and cooked to desired doneness , about 8 minutes . Let steak rest on a work surface for 10 minutes . Thinly slice steak against the grain . Divide rice , tomatoes , romaine lettuce , tortilla chips , black beans , jalapeno peppers , and lime wedges between 2 serving bowls ; top with steak , cotija cheese , and 1 tablespoon cilantro . Combine avocados , water , 1/2 cup cilantro , sour cream , lime juice , garlic , and salt in a blender ; blend until dressing is smooth . Pour dressing over each bowl . 
1 pound shredded rotisserie chicken 1/4 cup Buffalo wing sauce 1 (16 ounce) package tortilla chips 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (8 ounce) package shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup crumbled blue cheese 1 tablespoon chopped jalapeno peppers , or to taste 1 tablespoon chopped green onion , or to taste  | Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) . Combine chicken and Buffalo wing sauce in a bowl . Place 1 layer tortilla chips in the bottom of a baking dish ; top with a layer of Buffalo chicken mixture , black beans , and Cheddar cheese . Continue layering with remaining tortilla chips , Buffalo chicken mixture , black beans , and Cheddar cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted , 10 to 15 minutes . Cover the nachos with aluminum foil if the top is getting too dark . Top nachos with sour cream , blue cheese , jalapeno peppers , and green onion . 
4 cups water 2 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 1 large onion , chopped 1/2 cup salsa (optional) 1/2 cup roughly chopped cilantro , or to taste 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons tomato-flavored bouillon 2 teaspoons vegetable bouillon 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground paprika 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper  | Combine water , pinto beans , onion , salsa , cilantro , jalapeno pepper , garlic , tomato bouillon , vegetable bouillon , chili powder , paprika , cumin , and black pepper in an electric pressure cooker (such as Instant Pot(R)) . Cook for 45 minutes on the "Bean/Chili" setting . Let pressure release naturally per manufacturer's instructions . 
2 pounds flank steak 6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1/4 cup lemon juice 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons dried oregano 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper cooking spray 1 (15 ounce) can chickpeas , drained and rinsed 1 1/2 cups cherry tomatoes 1 English cucumber , chopped 1 red onion , chopped 12 corn tortillas 1 cup crumbled feta cheese 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley  | Put steak in a large resealable plastic bag . Whisk olive oil , lemon juice , Worcestershire sauce , garlic , oregano , salt , and black pepper in a small bowl . Reserve 1/2 cup marinade for vegetables ; pour remainder over steak and turn to coat . Seal bag . Chill at least 2 hours or up to 12 hours . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place 1 rack in center position and another 4 inches from broiler . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil and spray with cooking spray . Toss chickpeas , tomatoes , cucumber , and red onion with reserved 1/2 cup marinade on the prepared baking sheet and spread in an even layer . Roast on center rack until vegetables begin to pucker and brown , 15 to 20 minutes . Remove baking sheet from oven and turn oven to broil . Push vegetables to the middle of the pan . Remove steak from marinade , allowing excess liquid to drip off , brush off garlic , and set on top of vegetables . Discard marinade . Broil steak on top rack , flipping once , until it begins to char and an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part registers 125 degrees F (52 degrees C) for rare or 135 degrees F (57 degrees F) for medium-rare , 3 to 5 minutes per side . Turn oven off and place tortillas on the bottom rack of the oven ; keep in oven until warmed and slightly toasted , 1 to 2 minutes . Cover steak loosely with foil and let rest 10 minutes before slicing thinly across the grain . Fill tortillas with warm steak and vegetables ; top with feta cheese and parsley . 
2 pounds flank steak 6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1/4 cup lime juice 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 teaspoons dried oregano 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper cooking spray 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 1/2 cups cherry tomatoes 1 red onion , chopped 8 cups chopped romaine lettuce 1 cup crumbled queso fresco 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro  | Put steak in a large resealable plastic bag . Whisk olive oil , lime juice , Worcestershire sauce , garlic , oregano , salt , cumin , and black pepper in a small bowl . Reserve 1/2 cup marinade for vegetables ; pour remainder over steak and turn to coat . Seal bag . Chill at least 2 hours or up to 12 hours . Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place 1 rack in center position and another 4 inches from broiler . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil and spray with cooking spray . Toss black beans , tomatoes , and onion , with reserved 1/2 cup marinade on the prepared baking sheet and spread in an even layer . Roast on center rack until vegetables begin to pucker and brown , 15 to 20 minutes . Remove baking sheet from oven and turn oven to broil . Push vegetables to the middle of the pan . Remove steak from marinade , allowing excess liquid to drip off , brush off garlic , and set on top of vegetables . Discard marinade . Broil steak on top rack , flipping once , until it begins to char and an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part registers 125 degrees F (52 degrees C) for rare or 135 degrees F (57 degrees F) for medium-rare , 3 to 5 minutes per side . Cover steak loosely with foil and let rest 10 minutes before slicing thinly across the grain . Serve warm steak and vegetables with pan juices over romaine ; top with queso fresco and cilantro . 
2 eggs 1/2 cup diced onion 1/4 cup milk 2 tablespoons diced green bell pepper 2 tablespoons diced red bell pepper 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and diced 2 teaspoons Mexican-style chile powder 1 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 dash ground cinnamon salt and ground black pepper to taste cooking spray  | Whisk eggs together in a bowl . Mix in onion , milk , green bell pepper , red bell pepper , jalapeno pepper , chile powder , onion powder , cumin , cinnamon , salt , and pepper . Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat ; grease with cooking spray . Pour in egg mixture ; cook and stir until golden brown , about 5 minutes per side . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 chicken breasts , cut into 1-inch pieces 1 small onion , chopped 2 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce , seeded and diced 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 pinch garlic salt , or to taste 1 (32 ounce) can enchilada sauce 2 (16 ounce) cans hominy 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 1/2 cups water 2 tablespoons chili powder 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 pinch cayenne pepper salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/4 cup chopped cilantro  | Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat . Add chicken , onion , chipotle peppers , garlic , and garlic salt ; cook and stir until lightly browned , 5 to 8 minutes . Stir enchilada sauce , hominy , tomatoes , black beans , and water into the pot . Season with chili powder , cumin , oregano , cayenne pepper , salt , and pepper . Bring to a gentle boil . Cover and simmer until flavors combine , about 40 minutes . Garnish with cilantro . 
Vegan Green Chile Cilantro Sauce : 1 cup unsalted raw cashews 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1/4 cup hemp milk 1/2 jalapeno pepper with seeds , or more to taste 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 1/4 cups chopped fresh cilantro 3 cups water 1 1/2 cups quinoa 2 romaine hearts , chopped 2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , rinsed and drained 3 cups chopped red bell pepper 1/2 cup chopped red onion 2 avocados , chopped  | Combine cashews , green chile peppers , hemp milk , jalapeno pepper , and salt in a blender ; process until smooth . Pour cashew mixture into a small bowl ; stir in 1 cup cilantro . Bring water and quinoa to a boil in a saucepan . Reduce heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until quinoa is tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Divide romaine lettuce among 4 bowls . Top with quinoa , black beans , red bell pepper , and onion . Drizzle cilantro sauce on top . Garnish with remaining 1/4 cup cilantro and chopped avocados . 
1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup chopped green onions 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1/2 cup sour cream 1 1/2 cups cubed cooked chicken breast meat 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese , divided 6 (12 inch) flour tortillas 1/4 cup milk  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a large baking dish . In a medium saucepan over medium heat , melt the butter and saute the green onion until tender (about 3 to 4 minutes) . Add the garlic powder , then stir in the green chiles , cream of mushroom soup and sour cream . Mix well . Reserve 3/4 of this sauce and set aside . To the remaining 1/4 of the sauce in the saucepan , add the chicken and 1/2 cup of shredded Cheddar cheese . Stir together . Fill each flour tortilla with the chicken mixture and roll up . Place seam side down in the prepared baking dish . In a small bowl combine the reserved 3/4 of the sauce with the milk . Spoon this mixture over the rolled tortillas and top with the remaining 1/2 cup of shredded Cheddar cheese . Bake in the preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes , or until cheese is bubbly . 
10 small potatoes 4 tomatoes , diced , divided 1 onion , diced , divided 1 green chile pepper , diced , divided salt and ground black pepper to taste 1/2 cup olive oil , divided 10 corn tortillas 5 ounces truffle-infused cow's milk cheese , grated  | Place potatoes into a large pot and cover with salted water ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until tender , 15 to 20 minutes . Drain . Place 1/2 of the tomatoes , 1/2 of the onion , and 1/2 of the green chile pepper in a food processor or blender ; season with salt and pepper . Blend until smooth . Heat 1/4 cup oil in a large skillet over medium heat ; add potatoes and mash with the back of a wooden spoon or fork . Season potatoes with salt and pepper . Cook and stir until lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Stir 1/2 cup blended tomato mixture into potatoes . Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a separate skillet over medium heat ; cook 1 tortilla until softened , 1 to 2 minutes . Spoon 1 tablespoon potato mixture onto 1 side of the tortilla , cover with truffle-infused cheese , and fold taco in half . Fry in the oil until brown and crisp , 2 to 3 minutes more . Repeat with remaining oil , tortillas , potato mixture , and cheese . Mix the remaining tomatoes , onion , and green chile pepper together in a bowl ; add the remaining blended tomato mixture until salsa is well mixed . Serve salsa alongside tacos . 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil 2 cups cooked pinto beans 1 tablespoon water , or more as needed 3 tablespoons butter 1 baguette , sliced 3/4-inch thick 10 1/2 ounces Oaxaca cheese , shredded 2 tablespoons pico de gallo , or to taste  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add beans and water ; mash until soft and heated through , about 5 minutes . Spread butter on baguette slices ; arrange on a toaster oven tray . Bake in the toaster oven until golden , 2 to 3 minutes . Spread beans on top . Cover with Oaxaca cheese . Bake in the toaster oven until cheese is melted and lightly browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Transfer to a serving platter . Garnish with pico de gallo . 
Corn Salsa : 1 (15 ounce) can corn , drained 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 limes , juiced 1/2 jalapeno pepper , chopped 2 tablespoons ground cumin 1 tablespoon onion powder 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons chopped garlic 1/2 teaspoon Himalayan salt 2 teaspoons olive oil 2 dashes liquid smoke flavoring 3 portobello mushrooms , stems removed 2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons dried oregano 2 teaspoons garlic powder 2 teaspoons onion powder 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon sea salt 1 (16 ounce) can refried black beans 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1 tablespoon garlic powder 1 tablespoon onion powder 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 avocado , roughly chopped and slightly mashed 1 Roma tomato , diced  | Mix corn , cilantro , lime juice , jalapeno , 2 tablespoons cumin , 1 tablespoon onion powder , 1 tablespoon oregano , chopped garlic , and 1/2 teaspoon Himalayan salt together in a bowl until salsa is well mixed . Mix olive oil and liquid smoke together in a separate bowl ; rub onto mushrooms . Season mushrooms with 2 teaspoons cumin , 2 teaspoons oregano , 2 teaspoons garlic powder , 2 teaspoons onion powder , 1 teaspoon black pepper , and 1/2 teaspoon sea salt . Place seasoned mushrooms onto a grill pan with the flat side down . (A grill pan for a countertop induction oven can also be used.) Place grill pan in the oven and heat oven to 445 degrees F (230 degrees C) . (Or turn on a countertop induction oven to Combo 1.) Cook in the oven until tender , 9 to 10 minutes . Mix refried beans , 1 tablespoon cumin , 1 tablespoon oregano , 1 tablespoon garlic powder , 1 tablespoon onion powder , 1 teaspoon black pepper , and 1/2 teaspoon salt together in a saucepan over medium heat ; cook and stir until heated through , about 5 minutes . Remove grill pan from oven and spoon bean mixture into mushrooms ; top with Cheddar cheese . Return grill pan with mushrooms to oven . Set oven to broil and cook mushrooms until cheese is melted , 30 seconds to 1 minute . Spoon salsa over mushrooms and top with avocado and tomatoes . 
8 (1 ounce) slices smoked bacon , cut into 1/2-inch strips 1 large onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 (32 ounce) container chicken broth 3 skinless , boneless chicken breasts 1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes and mild green chile peppers (such as RO*TEL®) 1 (14 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (14 ounce) can whole kernel corn 3 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce , chopped , or to taste 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon ground black pepper 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons dried cilantro 3 (8 inch) flour tortillas , cut into strips 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream 1/2 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese  | Cook bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until crispy , about 5 minutes . Drain on a paper towel , reserving 1 tablespoon grease in the skillet . Add onion and garlic to the skillet ; cook and stir until onion are translucent , about 5 minutes . Combine chicken broth and chicken breasts in a large pot ; bring to a boil . Cook until chicken breasts are no longer pink in the center , about 15 minutes . Remove chicken breasts from broth ; cool until easily handled . Stir bacon , onion , garlic , diced tomatoes and green chile peppers , and tomato sauce into the chicken broth . Add corn , chipotle peppers , salt , pepper , cumin , and cilantro . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place tortilla strips on a baking sheet . Tear chicken breasts into small strips ; add to the broth mixture . Cook and stir until soup flavors combine , about 20 minutes . Bake tortilla strips in the preheated oven until slightly crisp , about 5 minutes . Ladle soup into serving bowls . Top with sour cream ; garnish with tortilla strips and Cheddar cheese . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 white onion , diced 2 cloves garlic , diced 1 (32 ounce) can chicken broth 1 (14.5 ounce) can chicken broth 1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes 4 large fresh tomatoes , diced 2 Anaheim chile peppers , stemmed and seeded 1 jalapeno pepper , stemmed and seeded (optional) 2 tablespoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 whole rotisserie chicken , torn into bite-sized pieces 1 lime , sliced into wedges 3 cups crushed corn chips 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese 1 avocado - peeled , seeded , and sliced 3 sprigs cilantro , diced  | Heat vegetable oil in a large stock pot over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until brown and tender , about 5 minutes . Stir in 2 cans of chicken broth and canned tomatoes . Add fresh tomatoes . Mix Anaheim chile peppers , jalapeno pepper , cumin , chili powder , and pepper into the pot . Stir in chicken . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat to medium and simmer soup until flavors combine , about 20 minutes . Ladle soup into serving bowls ; twist 1 lime wedge into each bowl . Top with corn chips , sour cream , Cheddar cheese , avocado slices , and cilantro . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon onion powder 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 5 potatoes , peeled and shredded 1 (12 ounce) can lite luncheon meat (such as Spam®) , diced 1/2 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas , or more if needed salt and ground black pepper to taste  | Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add garlic powder , onion powder , chili powder , ground cumin , and red pepper flakes ; stir until mixed . Add potatoes ; cook and stir until softened , about 12 minutes . Stir luncheon meat into the potato mixture ; cook and stir until lightly browned , about 5 minutes . Stir in tomato sauce . Remove from heat . Heat tortillas in a toaster oven or conventional oven on warm setting until warmed , about 2 minutes . Place large spoonfuls of the potato mixture into warmed tortillas ; season with salt and pepper . 
1 slice whole wheat bread 1/4 cup canned fat-free refried beans 1/2 avocado 1/2 teaspoon lime juice 1 pinch garlic powder 1 dash salt 1 dash chili powder 1 dash ground cumin 1 egg 1 teaspoon pico de gallo 1 teaspoon crumbled queso fresco 1 dash hot sauce (such as Cholula®)  | Toast whole wheat bread until golden brown . Spread refried beans on top . Mash avocado in a small bowl ; stir in lime juice , garlic powder , salt , chili powder , and cumin . Spread avocado over refried beans . Heat a small nonstick skillet over medium heat . Crack egg into the skillet ; cook until white is set , about 2 minutes . Cover skillet and cook until yolk is set , about 2 minutes more . Place egg over mashed avocado . Garnish with pico de gallo , queso fresco , and hot sauce . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1/2 onion , cut into noodle shapes 3 cloves garlic , crushed 4 Mexican squash , cut into noodle shapes 1 (11 ounce) can Mexican-style corn (such as Green Giant® Mexicorn®) , drained 4 ounces Neufchatel cheese , softened 1 (4 ounce) can fire-roasted diced green chile peppers 1/4 cup milk  | Heat oil in a skillet over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until onion is translucent , about 5 minutes . Stir in squash and corn ; cook , stirring frequently , until squash is softened , about 5 minutes . Transfer to individual serving plates . Combine Neufchatel cheese , chile peppers , and milk in a blender ; blend until sauce is smooth . Heat sauce in a saucepan over medium heat until warmed through , 2 to 4 minutes ; pour over squash mixture . 
2 Anaheim chile peppers 3 pounds boneless pork shoulder 1 teaspoon sea salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons bacon fat 1 cup beef broth 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 1 onion , halved and sliced 1 red bell pepper , seeded and sliced 1 yellow bell pepper , seeded and sliced 1 lime , juiced 4 cloves garlic , crushed 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon dried oregano 1/4 teaspoon chili powder 1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 bay leaf Toppings : 2 ripe avocados , sliced 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 2 limes , quartered  | Set oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source and preheat the oven's broiler . Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil . Halve Anaheim chile peppers lengthwise ; remove the stem , seeds , and ribs . Place peppers cut-side down onto the prepared baking sheet . Cook in the preheated broiler until peppers are blackened and blistered , 5 to 8 minutes . Transfer to a bowl and over tightly with plastic wrap . Let peppers steam as they cool , about 20 minutes . Remove and discard skins ; chop flesh . Season pork with salt and black pepper . Heat bacon fat in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Add pork ; cook until browned , about 3 minutes per side . Transfer pork to a slow cooker . Pour in beef broth and coat pork with tomato paste . Add roasted chile pepper , onion , red bell pepper , yellow bell pepper , lime juice , garlic , cumin , oregano , chili powder , cayenne pepper , and bay leaf . Cook on Low until pork is tender , about 8 hours . Shred pork using 2 forks . Serve with avocados , cilantro , and lime wedges . 
2 cups ice 12 fluid ounces margarita mix 6 fluid ounces tequila 4 fluid ounces mango nectar 1 lime , halved 1 tablespoon white sugar , or as needed  | Combine ice , margarita mix , tequila , and mango nectar in a blender ; squeeze 1 lime half into the blender . Blend until cocktail is smooth . Cut remaining lime half into wedges . Pour 1/4 to 1/2 inch of sugar onto a small , shallow plate . Moisten rims of 4 glasses with a wedge of lime , dip the moistened glasses into sugar . Pour cocktail into the prepared glasses . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 4 teaspoons taco seasoning mix 1 cup salsa 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 2 tablespoons sour cream (optional)  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) Place chicken breasts in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Sprinkle taco seasoning on both sides of chicken breasts , and pour salsa over all . Bake at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 25 to 35 minutes , or until chicken is tender and juicy and its juices run clear . Sprinkle chicken evenly with cheese , and continue baking for an additional 3 to 5 minutes , or until cheese is melted and bubbly . Top with sour cream if desired , and serve . 
1 1/3 cups water 3 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons liquid smoke flavoring (optional) 2 (1 ounce) packages fajita seasoning 4 large avocados - peeled , pitted , and sliced into 1/2-inch wedges 4 large bell peppers - stemmed , seeded , and sliced into 1/2-inch wedges 1 extra large onion , sliced into rings and rings separated 12 (6 inch) flour tortillas  | Whisk water , oil , liquid smoke , and fajita seasoning together in a bowl and pour into a resealable plastic bag . Add avocados , bell pepper , and onion , coat with the marinade , squeeze out excess air , and seal the bag . Marinate in the refrigerator for 1 hour to overnight ; turn occasionally . Preheat oven to 225 degrees F (110 degrees C) . Stack tortillas ; wrap in aluminum foil . Place in oven to warm . Preheat grill for medium heat and lightly oil the grate . Drain marinade from vegetable mixture ; transfer to a plate . Separate avocados from onions and bell peppers . Place onions and peppers , in 1 layer , onto grill using tongs ; cook until tender , 5 to 10 minutes , turning as needed . Transfer to an oven-proof pan ; cover with aluminum foil . Place in the preheated oven to keep warm . Place avocados in 1 layer onto grill ; cook , turning once , until browned , about 5 minutes . Fill tortillas with avocado and onion mixture ; roll or fold tortilla around filling . 
cooking spray (such as Pam®) 1 1/2 pounds ground beef 1 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup water 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 (10 ounce) can refried beans (optional) 1/2 cup salsa 1 (6 ounce) can sliced black olives (optional) 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles 15 taco shells , broken up , or more to taste 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Spray a 9x13-inch baking pan with cooking spray . Cook ground beef and onions in a skillet over medium heat until beef is browned , 7 to 10 minutes ; drain grease . Stir in water and taco seasoning ; cook , stirring often , until thickened , about 2 minutes . Add refried beans , salsa , olives , and green chiles . Cook and stir over low heat until ingredients are warmed through , 3 to 4 minutes . Place half of the taco shells in the bottom of the baking dish . Pour in half of the ground beef mixture ; sprinkle with half of the Cheddar cheese . Repeat with remaining taco shells , ground beef mixture , and Cheddar cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and bubbly , 20 to 25 minutes . 
1 pound ground beef 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 cup salsa 1/2 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained (optional) 1 (8.5 ounce) package corn bread mix (such as Jiffy®) 1/3 cup milk 1 egg 1 tablespoon honey 1 tablespoon corn oil 1/2 cup corn (optional) 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup corn chips , partially crushed  | Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until brown and crumbled , 7 to 10 minutes ; drain grease . Add taco seasoning ; mix well . Stir in salsa and black beans ; remove from heat . Grease a 9-inch pie pan or casserole dish . Mix corn bread mix , milk , egg , honey , and corn oil together in a bowl until batter is smooth ; stir in corn . Pour batter into pie pan . Layer ground beef mixture over batter ; sprinkle with Cheddar cheese . Top with corn chips . Place in a cold oven ; set temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bake until sides are golden brown , 30 to 35 minutes . 
1/4 cup butter 1 onion , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 (16 ounce) package shredded pork 1/4 cup water 1 (1 ounce) package fajita seasoning 6 (6 inch) corn tortillas Toppings : 1 cup shredded lettuce 1 cup tomatoes , chopped 1 cup Shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (8 ounce) jar salsa (optional) 1 (8 ounce) carton sour cream (optional)  | Heat butter in a large skillet over medium heat until melted , 3 to 5 minutes . Stir in onion and green pepper ; cook and stir until softened , about 5 minutes . Add shredded pork , water , and fajita seasoning ; cook and stir until heated through , about 5 minutes . Place tortillas in a skillet over low heat until warmed , 1 to 2 minutes . Remove tortillas from the skillet . Spoon shredded pork mixture into tortillas ; top with lettuce , tomato , Cheddar cheese , salsa , and sour cream . 
2 cups fresh blueberries , divided 1 white onion , chopped 1 cup chopped purple Cherokee tomatoes 1 cup white sugar 8 habanero peppers , seeded and chopped 1/2 cup chopped cilantro 1/4 cup lime juice 5 cloves garlic , chopped 1 pinch Himalayan salt , or to taste  | Place 1 cup blueberries into a blender . Cover and blend until pureed . Coarsely chop remaining blueberries . Combine pureed blueberries , chopped blueberries , onion , tomatoes , sugar , habanero peppers , cilantro , lime juice , garlic , and Himalayan salt together in a bowl . 
1 jicama , cut into spirals 1 English cucumber , cut into spirals 1/2 red onion , cut into spirals 2 mini sweet bell peppers , cut into matchstick pieces 1 large jalapeno , cut into spirals 1 lime , juiced 1 tablespoon avocado oil 2 avocados , mashed 1 pinch garlic salt , or to taste 4 prepared tostada shells 10 grape tomatoes , halved 1/4 cup chopped cilantro (optional) 1 lime , cut into wedges  | Place jicama , cucumber , red onion , and bell peppers together in a mixing bowl . Toss with lime juice and avocado oil until combined ; refrigerate until chilled , about 20 minutes . Season the mashed avocado with garlic salt . Spread the avocado mixture evenly over tostada shells . Top evenly with jicama mixture and grape tomatoes . Garnish with cilantro and serve with lime wedges . 
8 cups water , divided 1 cup quick-cooking oats 1 cinnamon stick 1/2 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract  | Combine 5 cups water , quick-cooking oats , and cinnamon stick in a blender ; blend until combined , about 1 minute . Pour the oat mixture through a strainer , collecting the liquids in a pitcher and reserving the solids . Pour remaining water through the strainer containing the solids and into the pitcher . Add sugar and vanilla extract ; refrigerate until chilled , about 1 hour . 
1 cup plain yogurt 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh basil 1 pound ground beef 3/4 cup water 1 envelope taco seasoning mix 1 (4.6 ounce) package taco shells 1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese 2/3 large English cucumber , thinly sliced 2 large carrots , thinly sliced 4 sun-dried tomatoes , cut into strips hot sauce to taste  | Stir yogurt and basil together in a bowl ; place in refrigerator . Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat , and cook and stir beef until browned and crumbly , 5 to 7 minutes ; drain and discard grease . Stir water and taco seasoning into beef ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low ; simmer beef mixture until thickened , about 5 minutes . Spoon about 1 tablespoon yogurt mixture into each taco shell ; layer in beef mixture , mozzarella cheese , cucumber , carrots , and a few strips of sun-dried tomato . Top with hot sauce and remaining yogurt . 
8 cups all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 teaspoon salt 2 1/4 cups vegetable shortening 1 cup water  | Sift flour onto a flat work surface . Make a well in the center . Add sugar and salt . Gradually mix in shortening and water with a fork until dough comes together . Knead until smooth , about 10 minutes . Divide dough into 30 pieces . Roll each piece out into a thin , 6-inch round . 
6 pounds bone-in chicken breasts water to cover 1 (15 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 onion , quartered 4 tomatillos - stemmed , husked , and halved (optional) 3 cloves garlic , peeled 4 New Mexico dried red chile pods , stemmed and seeded 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 cup lard 1 cup masa harina 1 (12 ounce) bag shredded Cheddar and Monterey Jack cheese blend  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place chicken breasts in baking pans and cover with aluminum foil . Bake chicken in the preheated oven until tender and cooked through , 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hour . An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C) . Cool until easily handled . Remove skin and discard . Bone chicken and chop into 1/2-inch pieces . Combine bones with drippings from baking pans in a large pot ; add enough water to cover . Bring to a boil and simmer for 1 hour . Strain broth and discard bones . Place tomatoes , onion , tomatillos , garlic , and red chile pods in a blender or food processor ; puree until chile pods are reduced to small flecks . Pour into a pot . Mix 1 cup chicken broth , salt , cumin , and oregano into pureed mixture in the pot . Bring to a boil ; reduce heat and simmer , about 5 minutes . Stir in chicken . Remove from heat . Microwave 1 cup chicken broth and lard together in a microwave-safe bowl until lard is just melted , about 2 minutes . Mix in masa harina with your hands to make a smooth paste . Press paste evenly into the bottom of a 10x13-inch baking pan . Spread chicken mixture on top . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake in the preheated oven until chicken is heated through , about 40 minutes . Sprinkle shredded Cheddar and Monterey Jack cheese blend on top . Continue baking until cheese is melted and starting to bubble , 3 to 5 minutes . Let stand before serving , about 5 minutes . 
2 pounds ground beef 1 onion , chopped 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 (2 ounce) can black olives , sliced 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chili peppers 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 1 (16 ounce) jar taco sauce 2 (16 ounce) cans refried beans 12 (8 inch) flour tortillas 9 ounces shredded Colby cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet over medium heat , saute the ground beef for 5 minutes . Add the onion and garlic , and saute for 5 more minutes . Drain any excess fat , if desired . Mix in the olives , green chile peppers , tomatoes with green chile peppers , taco sauce and refried beans . Stir mixture thoroughly , reduce heat to low , and let simmer for 15 to 20 minutes . Spread a thin layer of the meat mixture in the bottom of a 4 quart casserole dish . Cover with a layer of tortillas followed by more meat mixture , then a layer of cheese . Repeat tortilla , meat , cheese pattern until all the tortillas are used , topping off with a layer of meat mixture and cheese . Bake for 20 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven , or until cheese is slightly brown and bubbly . 
1/4 cup cajeta , sweetened caramelized goat's milk syrup 350 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup butter , softened 2 1/2 tablespoons butter , softened 1 cup white sugar 1 egg 2 tablespoons strong brewed coffee 1 cup whole milk Flan : 2 1/2 cups evaporated milk 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 4 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease the base and sides of a 9-inch fluted tube pan . Dust lightly with flour ; tap to remove excess . Fill a shallow baking pan with enough water to come 1/3 of the way up the sides of the tube pan . Place water bath in the oven to warm up while it is preheating . Pour caramel sauce into a microwave-safe bowl . Microwave until warm and pourable , about 1 minute . Pour into the prepared tube pan , covering the base completely . Mix flour , cocoa powder , baking soda , and baking powder together in a bowl . Beat 1/2 cup plus 2 1/2 tablespoons butter in a bowl with an electric mixer until smooth . Add sugar ; beat until light and fluffy . Beat in 1 egg and coffee . Alternate adding flour mixture and milk , mixing well between additions . Pour cake batter evenly over caramel in the tube pan . Combine evaporated milk , condensed milk , 4 eggs , and vanilla extract in the bowl of a food processor ; blend until smooth . Pour over cake batter through a fine sieve . Bake in the water bath in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the chocolate cake comes out clean , about 1 hour . Let cake cool , about 1 hour . Carefully run a thin knife around the edges to loosen the cake , cover with a serving plate , and flip onto the plate . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup uncooked long-grain rice 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup tomato sauce 2 cups chicken broth  | Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat and add rice . Cook , stirring constantly , until puffed and golden . While rice is cooking , sprinkle with salt and cumin . Stir in onions and cook until tender . Stir in tomato sauce and chicken broth ; bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes . Fluff with a fork . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 onion , chopped 1/2 pint sour cream 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 tablespoon dried parsley 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt (optional) 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon chili powder 1/3 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 clove garlic , minced 8 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 (12 ounce) jar taco sauce 3/4 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium , non-stick skillet over medium heat , cook chicken until no longer pink and juices run clear . Drain excess fat . Cube the chicken and return it to the skillet . Add the onion , sour cream , Cheddar cheese , parsley , oregano and ground black pepper . Heat until cheese melts . Stir in salt , tomato sauce , water , chili powder , green pepper and garlic . Roll even amounts of the mixture in the tortillas . Arrange in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Cover with taco sauce and 3/4 cup Cheddar cheese . Bake uncovered in the preheated oven 20 minutes . Cool 10 minutes before serving . 
1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 (16 ounce) container sour cream 1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 large tomato , chopped 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 bunch chopped green onions 1 small head iceberg lettuce , shredded 1 (6 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | In a medium bowl , blend the taco seasoning mix and refried beans . Spread the mixture onto a large serving platter . Mix the sour cream and cream cheese in a medium bowl . Spread over the refried beans . Top the layers with salsa . Place a layer of tomato , green bell pepper , green onions and lettuce over the salsa , and top with Cheddar cheese . Garnish with black olives . 
1 (3 1/2) pound boneless pork shoulder , trimmed and cut into 2 inch chunks 2 oranges , quartered 1 large white onion , quartered 6 cloves garlic , peeled and crushed 1/4 cup kosher salt 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns 2 bay leaves  | Place the pork shoulder , oranges , onion , garlic , kosher salt , cumin , black peppercorns , and bay leaves into a large Dutch oven . Add water to cover . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce the heat to medium-low , and simmer for 10 minutes . Skim off any foam that rises to the top . Cover loosely , and simmer until the meat is tender , about 1 1/2 hours . Allow the pork to cool , covered , in the broth for 1 hour . Shred the meat with two forks . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , chopped 4 cloves garlic , minced 6 cups canned kidney beans , drained 2 cups water 3 tablespoons chili powder 4 teaspoons prepared mustard 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 pinch cayenne pepper , or to taste 3 tablespoons soy sauce 4 cups mashed cooked sweet potatoes 12 (10 inch) flour tortillas , warmed 8 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat oil in a medium skillet and saute onion and garlic until soft . Mash beans into the onion mixture . Gradually stir in water ; heat until warm , 2 to 3 minutes . Remove from heat and stir in the soy sauce , chili powder , mustard , cumin , and cayenne pepper . Divide bean mixture and mashed sweet potatoes evenly between the tortillas ; top with cheese . Fold tortillas burrito-style around the fillings and place on a baking sheet . Bake in the preheated oven until warmed through , about 12 minutes . 
2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cut into chunks 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 1/4 cups sour cream 1/4 teaspoon chili powder 1 tablespoon butter 1 small onion , chopped 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chilies , drained 1 (1.25 ounce) package mild taco seasoning mix 1 bunch green onions , chopped , divided 1 cup water 1 teaspoon lime juice 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 5 (12 inch) flour tortillas 3 cups Cheddar cheese , shredded , divided 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 1 (6 ounce) can sliced black olives  | Place the chicken in a large pot and add water to cover . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce the heat to medium-low , cover , and simmer until the chicken pieces are no longer pink , about 10 minutes . Shred chicken by placing two forks back to back and pulling meat apart . Set the shredded chicken aside . Meanwhile , combine the cream of chicken soup , sour cream , and chili powder in a saucepan . Bring to a simmer over low heat , stirring occasionally , then turn off the heat and cover to keep warm . Heat the butter in a skillet over medium heat . Stir in the onion ; cook and stir until the onion has softened and turned translucent , about 5 minutes . Add the shredded chicken , chopped green chilies , taco seasoning , half of the bunch of chopped green onion , and water . Allow to simmer for 10 minutes . Stir in the lime juice , onion powder , and garlic powder ; simmer for an additional 10 minutes . Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Stir 1 cup of the soup mixture into the skillet with the chicken mixture . Spread the remaining soup mixture on the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Fill each tortilla with chicken mixture . Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over the chicken filling before folding the tortillas , reserving half of the shredded cheese for topping the enchiladas . Fold tortillas over the filling and place seam-side down in the prepared pan . Pour enchilada sauce evenly over the enchiladas . Cover with the remaining 1 1/2 cups of Cheddar cheese . Sprinkle the reserved chopped green onions and the sliced olives on top of the cheese . Bake in the preheated oven until filling is heated through and the cheese is melted and bubbling , about 25 minutes . 
1 1/2 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast meat - cubed 1/8 cup red wine vinegar 1/2 lime , juiced 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 green onions , chopped 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon dried oregano 10 (6 inch) flour tortillas 1 tomato , diced 1/4 cup shredded lettuce 1/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1/4 cup salsa  | Saute chicken in a medium saucepan over medium high heat for about 20 minutes . Add vinegar , lime juice , sugar , salt , pepper , green onion , garlic and oregano . Simmer for an extra 10 minutes . Heat an iron skillet over medium heat . Place a tortilla in the pan , warm , and turn over to heat the other side . Repeat with remaining tortillas . Serve lime chicken mixture in warm tortillas topped with tomato , lettuce , cheese and salsa . 
1 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 1 cup beer 1/2 cup plain yogurt 1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 lime , juiced 1 jalapeno pepper , minced 1 teaspoon minced capers 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon dried dill weed 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 quart oil for frying 1 pound cod fillets , cut into 2 to 3 ounce portions 1 (12 ounce) package corn tortillas 1/2 medium head cabbage , finely shredded  | To make beer batter : In a large bowl , combine flour , cornstarch , baking powder , and salt . Blend egg and beer , then quickly stir into the flour mixture (don't worry about a few lumps) . To make white sauce : In a medium bowl , mix together yogurt and mayonnaise . Gradually stir in fresh lime juice until consistency is slightly runny . Season with jalapeno , capers , oregano , cumin , dill , and cayenne . Heat oil in deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Dust fish pieces lightly with flour . Dip into beer batter , and fry until crisp and golden brown . Drain on paper towels . Lightly fry tortillas ; not too crisp . To serve , place fried fish in a tortilla , and top with shredded cabbage , and white sauce . 
1 onion , peeled and halved 3 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 1/2 fresh jalapeno pepper , seeded and chopped 2 tablespoons minced garlic 5 teaspoons salt 1 3/4 teaspoons fresh ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon ground cumin , optional 9 cups water  | Place the onion , rinsed beans , jalapeno , garlic , salt , pepper , and cumin into a slow cooker . Pour in the water and stir to combine . Cook on High for 8 hours , adding more water as needed . Note : if more than 1 cup of water has evaporated during cooking , then the temperature is too high . Once the beans have cooked , strain them , and reserve the liquid . Mash the beans with a potato masher , adding the reserved water as needed to attain desired consistency . 
2 quarts water 8 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 2 tablespoons dried parsley 1 tablespoon onion powder 5 cubes chicken bouillon 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , chopped 1 (16 ounce) jar chunky salsa 2 (14.5 ounce) cans peeled and diced tomatoes 1 (14.5 ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed tomato soup 3 tablespoons chili powder 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 2 (16 ounce) cans chili beans , undrained 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream  | In a large pot over medium heat , combine water , chicken , salt , pepper , garlic powder , parsley , onion powder and bouillon cubes . Bring to a boil , then reduce heat and simmer 1 hour , or until chicken juices run clear . Remove chicken , reserve broth . Shred chicken . In a large pot over medium heat , cook onion and garlic in olive oil until slightly browned . Stir in salsa , diced tomatoes , whole tomatoes , tomato soup , chili powder , corn , chili beans , sour cream , shredded chicken and 5 cups broth . Simmer 30 minutes . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breasts , cut into cubes 1/2 teaspoon olive oil 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 (14.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 1 cup frozen corn kernels 1 cup chopped onion 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 cup chunky salsa 8 ounces corn tortilla chips 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese (optional)  | In a large pot over medium heat , cook and stir chicken in the oil for 5 minutes . Add the garlic and cumin and mix well . Then add the broth , corn , onion , chili powder , lemon juice , and salsa . Reduce heat to low and simmer for about 20 to 30 minutes . Break up some tortilla chips into individual bowls and pour soup over chips . Top with the Monterey Jack cheese and a little sour cream . 
1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans , drained 1 (15 ounce) can cannellini beans , drained and rinsed 1 green bell pepper , chopped 1 red bell pepper , chopped 1 (10 ounce) package frozen corn kernels 1 red onion , chopped 1/2 cup olive oil 1/2 cup red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons white sugar 1 tablespoon salt 1 clove crushed garlic 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1/2 tablespoon ground cumin 1/2 tablespoon ground black pepper 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1/2 teaspoon chili powder  | In a large bowl , combine beans , bell peppers , frozen corn , and red onion . In a small bowl , whisk together olive oil , red wine vinegar , lime juice , lemon juice , sugar , salt , garlic , cilantro , cumin , and black pepper . Season to taste with hot sauce and chili powder . Pour olive oil dressing over vegetables ; mix well . Chill thoroughly , and serve cold . 
1 pound ground beef 1 onion , chopped 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans , with liquid 1 (15 ounce) can kidney beans with liquid 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , with liquid 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 2 cups water 2 (14.5 ounce) cans peeled and diced tomatoes 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chile peppers 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix  | In a medium skillet , cook the ground beef until browned over medium heat . Drain , and set aside . Place the ground beef , onion , chili beans , kidney beans , corn , tomato sauce , water , diced tomatoes , green chile peppers and taco seasoning mix in a slow cooker . Mix to blend , and cook on Low setting for 8 hours . 
2 (10 inch) flour tortillas 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 small onion , chopped 1/2 red bell pepper , chopped 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 teaspoon minced jalapeno peppers 3 ounces cream cheese 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Wrap tortillas in foil and place in oven heated to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Bake for 15 minutes or until heated through . Heat oil in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat . Place onion , bell pepper , garlic and jalapenos in skillet , cook for 2 minutes stirring occasionally . Pour beans into skillet , cook 3 minutes stirring . Cut cream cheese into cubes and add to skillet with salt . Cook for 2 minutes stirring occasionally . Stir cilantro into mixture . Spoon mixture evenly down center of warmed tortilla and roll tortillas up . Serve immediately . 
2 cloves garlic 3 serrano peppers 1 pound small green tomatillos , husks removed 1 cup vegetable oil for frying 9 corn tortillas 3 cups water 4 teaspoons chicken bouillon granules 1/2 store-bought rotisserie chicken , meat removed and shredded 1/4 head iceberg lettuce , shredded 1 cup cilantro leaves 1 (8 ounce) container Mexican crema , crema fresca 1 cup grated cotija cheese  | Cover a large griddle with aluminum foil and preheat to medium-high . Cook the garlic , serrano peppers , and tomatillos on the hot griddle until toasted and blackened , turning occasionally , about 5 minutes for the garlic , 10 minutes for the peppers , and 15 minutes for the tomatillos . Remove to a bowl and allow to cool . Heat oil in a small , deep skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Using kitchen tongs , fry the tortillas individually , turning them once . They shouldn't be in the hot oil for more than 5 seconds per side . Remove excess oil with paper towels and keep warm . Remember that the hotter the oil , the less that the tortillas will absorb . Place the toasted garlic , serrano peppers , tomatillos , and the water in a blender and blend until smooth ; pour into a saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil . Dissolve the chicken bouillon into the mixture , reduce heat to medium-low , and cook at a simmer until slightly thickened , about 10 minutes . The sauce shouldn't be too thick . Soak three tortillas in the sauce , one at a time , for a few seconds , fill them with shredded chicken , sprinkle the meat with some of the sauce , roll them and place them seam side down on a pasta bowl . Spoon a generous amount of sauce over them and top them with lettuce , cilantro , crema , and cotija cheese . Pour a little more sauce over the whole thing if desired . Repeat the procedure twice more . Serve immediately . 
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract 2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls 3/4 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 cup butter , room temperature 1/4 cup honey  | Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Prepare a 9x13 inch baking dish with cooking spray . Beat the cream cheese with 1 cup of sugar and the vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth . Unroll the cans of crescent roll dough , and use a rolling pin to shape each piece into 9x13 inch rectangles . Press one piece into the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Evenly spread the cream cheese mixture into the baking dish , then cover with the remaining piece of crescent dough . Stir together 3/4 cup of sugar , cinnamon , and butter . Dot the mixture over the top of the cheesecake . Bake in the preheated oven until the crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown , about 30 minutes . Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey . Cool completely in the pan before cutting into 12 squares . 
1 pound lean ground beef 2 cups salsa 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans , drained 3 cups tortilla chips , crushed 2 cups sour cream 1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained 1/2 cup chopped green onion 1/2 cup chopped fresh tomato 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet over medium-high heat , cook ground beef until no longer pink . Stir in salsa , reduce heat , and simmer 20 minutes , or until liquid is absorbed . Stir in beans , and heat through . Spray a 9x13 baking dish with cooking spray . Spread crushed tortilla chips in dish , and then spoon beef mixture over chips . Spread sour cream over beef , and sprinkle olives , green onion , and tomato over the sour cream . Top with Cheddar cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes , or until hot and bubbly . 
2 (15 ounce) cans black beans , drained and rinsed 1 1/2 cups vegetable broth 1 cup chunky salsa 1 teaspoon ground cumin 4 tablespoons sour cream 2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onion  | In an electric food processor or blender , combine beans , broth , salsa , and cumin . Blend until fairly smooth . Heat the bean mixture in a saucepan over medium heat until thoroughly heated . Ladle soup into 4 individual bowls , and top each bowl with 1 tablespoon of the sour cream and 1/2 tablespoon green onion . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup uncooked white rice 1 onion , chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , chopped 2 cups water 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes and green chiles 2 teaspoons chili powder , or to taste 1 teaspoon salt  | Heat oil in a deep skillet over medium heat . Saute rice , onion , and bell pepper until rice is browned and onions are tender . Stir in water and tomatoes . Season with chili powder and salt . Cover , and simmer for 30 minutes , or until rice is cooked and liquid is absorbed . 
1 onion , chopped 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 tablespoon olive oil 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed chicken broth 1 1/4 cups water 1 cup whole corn kernels , cooked 1 cup white hominy 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 2 boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and cut into bite-sized pieces crushed tortilla chips sliced avocado shredded Monterey Jack cheese chopped green onions  | In a medium stock pot , heat oil over medium heat . Saute onion and garlic in oil until soft . Stir in chili powder , oregano , tomatoes , broth , and water . Bring to a boil , and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes . Stir in corn , hominy , chiles , beans , cilantro , and chicken . Simmer for 10 minutes . Ladle soup into individual serving bowls , and top with crushed tortilla chips , avocado slices , cheese , and chopped green onion . 
2 teaspoons olive oil 3 tablespoons finely chopped onion 1 (15.5 ounce) can black beans , drained and rinsed 1 (10 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 tablespoon brown sugar 1/4 cup salsa 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes 2 tablespoons butter , divided 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese , divided  | Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in onion , and cook until softened , about 2 minutes . Stir in beans and corn , then add sugar , salsa , and pepper flakes ; mix well . Cook until heated through , about 3 minutes . Melt 2 teaspoons of the butter in a large skillet over medium heat . Place a tortilla in the skillet , sprinkle evenly with cheese , then top with some of the bean mixture . Place another tortilla on top , cook until golden , then flip and cook on the other side . Melt more butter as needed , and repeat with remaining tortillas and filling . 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon crumbled dried oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 (4 pound) boneless pork shoulder roast 2 bay leaves 2 cups chicken broth  | Mix together salt , garlic powder , cumin , oregano , coriander , and cinnamon in a bowl . Coat pork with the spice mixture . Place the bay leaves in the bottom of a slow cooker and place the pork on top . Pour the chicken broth around the sides of the pork , being careful not to rinse off the spice mixture . Cover and cook on Low until the pork shreds easily with a fork , about 10 hours . Turn the meat after it has cooked for 5 hours . When the pork is tender , remove from slow cooker , and shred with two forks . Use cooking liquid as needed to moisten the meat . 
1 1/3 cups uncooked white rice 2 2/3 cups water 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 onion , chopped 1 1/2 cups mild salsa  | Place rice and water in a saucepan , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 20 minutes . Meanwhile , place chicken breast halves into a large saucepan , and fill the pan with water . Bring to a boil , and cook for 20 minutes , or until done . Remove chicken from water . When cool enough to handle , cut meat into bite-size pieces . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a medium bowl , combine Monterey Jack and Cheddar cheeses . In a separate bowl , mix together cream of chicken soup , cream of mushroom soup , onion , and salsa . Layer 1/2 of the rice , 1/2 of the chicken , 1/2 of the soup and salsa mixture , and 1/2 of the cheese mixture in prepared dish . Repeat layers , ending with cheese . Bake in preheated oven for about 40 minutes , or until bubbly . 
1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 (1.25 ounce) package dry taco seasoning mix 1 lime , juiced 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 3 pounds skinless , boneless chicken breast halves  | Place the salsa , taco seasoning , lime juice , and cilantro into a slow cooker , and stir to combine . Add the chicken breasts , and stir to coat with the salsa mixture . Cover the cooker , set to High , and cook until the chicken is very tender , about 4 hours . If desired , set cooker to Low and cook 6 to 8 hours . Shred chicken with 2 forks to serve . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 skinless , boneless chicken breast half 2 tablespoons minced green onion 2 tablespoons minced red bell pepper 1/3 cup frozen corn kernels 1/4 cup black beans , rinsed and drained 2 tablespoons frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 2 tablespoons diced jalapeno peppers 1/2 tablespoon minced fresh parsley 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1/3 teaspoon salt 1 pinch ground cayenne pepper 3/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 5 (6 inch) flour tortillas 1 quart oil for deep frying  | Rub 1 tablespoon vegetable oil over chicken breast . In a medium saucepan over medium heat , cook chicken approximately 5 minutes per side , until meat is no longer pink and juices run clear . Remove from heat and set aside . Heat remaining 1 tablespoon vegetable oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat . Stir in green onion and red pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , until tender . Dice chicken and mix into the pan with onion and red pepper . Mix in corn , black beans , spinach , jalapeno peppers , parsley , cumin , chili powder , salt and cayenne pepper . Cook and stir 5 minutes , until well blended and tender . Remove from heat and stir in Monterey Jack cheese so that it melts . Wrap tortillas with a clean , lightly moist cloth . Microwave on high approximately 1 minute , or until hot and pliable . Spoon even amounts of the mixture into each tortilla . Fold ends of tortillas , then roll tightly around mixture . Secure with toothpicks . Arrange in a medium dish , cover with plastic , and place in the freezer . Freeze at least 4 hours . In a large , deep skillet , heat oil for deep frying to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Deep fry frozen , stuffed tortillas 10 minutes each , or until dark golden brown . Drain on paper towels before serving . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2/3 cup diced onion 1 1/2 cups uncooked white rice 1 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 1/2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce 2 teaspoons salt 1 clove garlic , minced 1/8 teaspoon powdered saffron 3 cups water  | In a large saucepan , heat vegetable oil over a medium-low heat . Place the onions in the pan , and saute until golden . Add rice to pan , and stir to coat grains with oil . Mix in green bell pepper , cumin , chili powder , tomato sauce , salt , garlic , saffron , and water . Cover , bring to a boil , and then reduce heat to simmer . Cook for 30 to 40 minutes , or until rice is tender . Stir occasionally . 
1 (15 ounce) can black-eyed peas 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 (4 ounce) can diced jalapeno peppers 1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes , drained 1 cup Italian-style salad dressing 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt  | In a medium bowl , combine black-eyed peas , black beans , corn , onion , green bell pepper , jalapeno peppers and tomatoes . Season with Italian-style salad dressing and garlic salt ; mix well . Cover , and refrigerate overnight to blend flavors . 
1/2 cup vegetable oil 1/3 cup soy sauce 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 1/2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 1/2 pounds flank steak  | In a medium bowl , mix the oil , soy sauce , vinegar , lemon juice , Worcestershire sauce , mustard , garlic , and ground black pepper . Place meat in a shallow glass dish . Pour marinade over the steak , turning meat to coat thoroughly . Cover , and refrigerate for 6 hours . Preheat grill for medium-high heat . Oil the grill grate . Place steaks on the grill , and discard the marinade . Grill meat for 5 minutes per side , or to desired doneness . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - boiled and shredded 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 (7 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1/2 cup sour cream 2 cups cottage cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 12 (6 inch) corn tortillas 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 (10 ounce) can red enchilada sauce  | To Make Meat Mixture : Heat oil in medium skillet over medium high heat . Add chicken , onion and green chile peppers and saute until browned , then add taco seasoning and prepare meat mixture according to package directions . To Make Cheese Mixture : In a medium bowl mix sour cream with cottage cheese and season with salt and pepper ; stir until well blended . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . To Assemble Enchiladas : Heat tortillas until soft . In each tortilla place a spoonful of meat mixture , a spoonful of cheese mixture and a bit of shredded cheese . Roll tortillas and place in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish . Top with any remaining meat and cheese mixture , enchilada sauce and remaining shredded cheese . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 minutes or until cheese is melted and bubbly . 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup unsalted butter 1 cup white sugar 5 eggs 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups whole milk 1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk 1 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream 1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Grease and flour one 9x13 inch baking pan . Sift flour and baking powder together and set aside . Cream butter or margarine and the 1 cup sugar together until fluffy . Add eggs and the 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract ; beat well . Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture 2 tablespoons at a time ; mix until well blended . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 minutes . Pierce cake several times with a fork . Combine the whole milk , condensed milk , and evaporated milk together . Pour over the top of the cooled cake . Whip whipping cream , the remaining 1 cup of the sugar , and the remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla together until thick . Spread over the top of cake . Be sure and keep cake refrigerated , enjoy ! 
1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1/2 cup sour cream 1 tablespoon margarine 1 onion , chopped 1 teaspoon chili powder 2 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 1 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers , drained 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a small bowl mix the soup and sour cream ; set aside . Melt margarine in a medium saucepan over medium high heat . Add onion and chili powder , and saute until tender . Stir in the chicken , chile peppers , and 2 tablespoons of the soup mixture . Cook and stir until heated through . Spread 1/2 cup of the soup mixture in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Spoon about 1/4 cup of the chicken mixture down the center of each tortilla . Roll up tortillas , and place , seam-side-down , in the baking dish . Spoon remaining soup mixture on top , and sprinkle with cheese . Bake 25 minutes in the preheated oven , or until bubbly and lightly browned . 
1 pound ground beef 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 (4.5 ounce) can diced green chile peppers 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 1 (15 ounce) can chili without beans 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed tomato soup 1 (10 ounce) can enchilada sauce 6 (12 inch) flour tortillas , warmed 2 cups shredded lettuce 1 cup chopped tomatoes 2 cups shredded Mexican blend cheese 1/2 cup chopped green onions  | Crumble ground beef into a skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir until evenly browned . Add onion , and cook until translucent . Drain grease , and season with garlic , cumin , salt and pepper . Stir in the green chilies and refried beans until well blended . Turn off heat , but keep warm . In a saucepan , combine the chili without beans , tomato soup and enchilada sauce . Mix well , and cook over medium heat until heated through . Turn off heat and keep warm . Place a warmed tortilla on a plate , and spoon a generous 1/2 cup of the ground beef mixture onto the center . Top with lettuce and tomato to your liking . Roll up tortilla over the filling . Spoon a generous amount of the sauce over the top , and sprinkle with cheese and green onions . Heat in the microwave for 30 seconds , or until cheese is melted . Repeat with remaining tortillas . 
1/4 cup vegetable oil 2 tablespoons self-rising flour 1/4 cup New Mexico or California chili powder 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups water 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon onion salt salt to taste  | Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat . Stir in flour and chili powder , reduce heat to medium , and cook until lightly brown , stirring constantly to prevent burning flour . Gradually stir in tomato sauce , water , cumin , garlic powder , and onion salt into the flour and chili powder until smooth , and continue cooking over medium heat approximately 10 minutes , or until thickened slightly . Season to taste with salt . 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon cider vinegar 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 clove garlic , minced 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1 1/2 pounds boneless , skinless chicken thighs , cut into strips 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 onion , thinly sliced 1 green bell pepper , sliced 1/2 lemon , juiced  | In a medium bowl , combine Worcestershire sauce , vinegar , soy sauce , chili powder , garlic and hot pepper sauce . Place chicken in sauce , and turn once to coat . Marinate for 30 minutes at room temperature , or cover and refrigerate for several hours . Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat . Add chicken strips to the pan , and saute for 5 minutes . Add the onion and green pepper , and saute another 3 minutes . Remove from heat , and sprinkle with lemon juice . 
1 cup butter , melted 1 cup white sugar 4 eggs 1 (15 ounce) can cream-style corn 1/2 (4 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers , drained 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1/2 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup yellow cornmeal 4 teaspoons baking powder 1/4 teaspoon salt  | Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a large bowl , beat together butter and sugar . Beat in eggs one at a time . Blend in cream corn , chiles , Monterey Jack and Cheddar cheese . In a separate bowl , stir together flour , cornmeal , baking powder and salt . Add flour mixture to corn mixture ; stir until smooth . Pour batter into prepared pan . Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour , until a toothpick inserted into center of the pan comes out clean . 
1 (4 pound) chuck roast 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion , chopped 1 1/4 cups diced green chile pepper 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 1 (5 ounce) bottle hot pepper sauce 1 teaspoon garlic powder  | Trim the roast of any excess fat , and season with salt and pepper . Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Place the beef in the hot skillet , and brown it quickly on all sides . Transfer the roast to a slow cooker and top it with the chopped onion . Season with chile peppers , chili powder , cayenne pepper , hot pepper sauce , and garlic powder . Add enough water to cover 1/3 of the roast . Cover , and cook on High for 6 hours , checking to make sure there is always at least a small amount of liquid in the bottom of the cooker . Reduce heat to Low , and continue cooking for 2 to 4 hours , or until meat is totally tender and falls apart . Transfer the roast to a bowl and shred it using two forks (reserve 2 cups of cooking liquid , if desired) . Serve in tacos or burritos (see Cook's Note) . 
2 1/2 cups fresh corn kernels 1 tablespoon olive oil 1/4 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1 pound zucchini , sliced 3 roma (plum) tomatoes , chopped 1 fresh poblano chile pepper - seeded , deveined , and chopped salt and black pepper to taste 1/4 cup crumbled cotija cheese  | Place the corn in a saucepan with enough water to cover ; bring to a boil . Place a cover on the saucepan , reduce heat to medium , and cook until tender , about 10 minutes . Drain . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat ; cook and stir the onion and garlic in the hot oil until fragrant , about 5 minutes . Mix the zucchini and tomato into the onion and garlic ; cook together 5 minutes . Stir the corn kernels into the mixture ; add the poblano pepper . Season with salt and pepper ; stir . Cover the skillet with a lid and cook until the zucchini is tender , about 10 minutes . Sprinkle with the cotija cheese to serve . 
1 pound lean ground beef 3/4 cup chopped onion 3/4 cup diced green bell pepper 1 1/2 cups whole kernel corn 2 cups taco sauce 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 8 (12 inch) flour tortillas 1 (16 ounce) package shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 tablespoon butter , melted shredded lettuce 1 tomato , diced  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Brown the ground beef in a skillet over medium-high heat . Drain excess grease , and add the onion , bell pepper , and corn . Cook for about 5 more minutes , or until vegetables are tender . Stir in the taco sauce , and season with chili powder , garlic salt and cumin , stirring until blended . Cook until heated through , then remove from heat , and set aside . Open the can of beans , and spread a thin layer of beans onto each of the tortillas . Spoon the beef mixture down the center , and then top with as much shredded cheese as you like . Roll up the tortillas , and place them seam-side down onto a baking sheet . Brush the tortillas with melted butter . Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in the preheated oven , or until golden brown . Serve with lettuce and tomato . 
1 teaspoon onion powder 1 teaspoon garlic powder 3 tablespoons chipotle chile powder 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 4 tablespoons brown sugar 2 (3/4 pound) pork tenderloins  | Preheat grill for medium-high heat . In a large resealable plastic bag , combine the onion powder , garlic powder , chipotle chile powder , salt , and brown sugar . Place tenderloins in bag and shake , coating meat evenly . Refrigerate for 10 to 15 minutes . Lightly oil grill grate , and arrange meat on grate . Cook for 20 minutes , turning meat every 5 minutes . Remove from grill , let stand for 5 to 10 minutes before slicing . 
1 (12 fluid ounce) can frozen limeade concentrate 12 fluid ounces tequila 12 fluid ounces water 12 fluid ounces beer ice 1 lime , cut into wedges  | Pour limeade , tequila , water , and beer into a large pitcher . Stir until well-blended , and limeade has melted . Add plenty of ice , and garnish with lime wedges . Adjust with additional water , if needed . 
3 pounds flank steak 1/3 cup white vinegar 1/2 cup soy sauce 4 cloves garlic , minced 2 limes , juiced 1/2 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground white pepper 1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon paprika 1 white onion , chopped 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 lime , juiced 2 large tomatoes , chopped 2 jalapeno peppers , chopped 1 white onion , quartered 4 cloves garlic , peeled 4 dried New Mexico chile pods 1 pinch salt and pepper to taste 1 (32 ounce) package corn tortillas 2 cups grated cotija cheese (optional) 2 limes , cut into wedges  | Lay the flank steak in a large glass baking dish . In a medium bowl , whisk together the vinegar , soy sauce , 4 cloves of garlic , juice of two limes , and olive oil . Season with salt , black pepper , white pepper , garlic powder , chili powder , oregano , cumin and paprika . Whisk until well blended , then pour over the steak in the dish . Turn over once to coat both sides . Cover with plastic wrap , and marinate for 1 to 8 hours . In a small bowl , stir together 1 chopped white onion , cilantro , and the juice of 1 lime . Set aside to use as a relish for the tacos . Heat a skillet over medium-high heat . Toast chile pods in the skillet for a few minutes , then remove to a bowl of water to soak for about 30 minutes . Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) . Place the tomatoes , 1 onion , jalapenos , and 4 cloves of garlic onto a baking sheet . Roast in the oven for about 20 minutes , until toasted but not burnt . Place the roasted vegetables , and soaked chile pods into a blender or food processor , along with salt and pepper . Puree until smooth . Heat vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cut the marinated flank steak into cubes or strips . Cook , stirring constantly , until the meat is cooked through and most of the liquid has evaporated . Warm the tortillas in a skillet for about a minute on each side to make them pliable . Tortillas may also be warmed in a microwave oven . Arrange two or three tortillas on a plate , and lay a generous amount of beef over them . Top with a sprinkle of the onion relish and a large spoonful of the pureed salsa . Add as much cheese as you like . Garnish with lime wedges , and serve . 
2 (14.5 ounce) cans stewed tomatoes 1/2 onion , finely diced 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1/2 lime , juiced 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup canned sliced green chiles , or to taste 3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro  | Place the tomatoes , onion , garlic , lime juice , salt , green chiles , and cilantro in a blender or food processor . Blend on low to desired consistency . 
4 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons lard 1 1/2 cups water  | Whisk the flour , salt , and baking powder together in a mixing bowl . Mix in the lard with your fingers until the flour resembles cornmeal . Add the water and mix until the dough comes together ; place on a lightly floured surface and knead a few minutes until smooth and elastic . Divide the dough into 24 equal pieces and roll each piece into a ball . Preheat a large skillet over medium-high heat . Use a well-floured rolling pin to roll a dough ball into a thin , round tortilla . Place into the hot skillet , and cook until bubbly and golden ; flip and continue cooking until golden on the other side . Place the cooked tortilla in a tortilla warmer ; continue rolling and cooking the remaining dough . 
1 mango - peeled , seeded and diced 1 avocado - peeled , pitted , and diced 4 medium tomatoes , diced 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 3 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 1/4 cup chopped red onion 3 tablespoons olive oil  | In a medium bowl , combine the mango , avocado , tomatoes , jalapeno , cilantro , and garlic . Stir in the salt , lime juice , red onion , and olive oil . To blend the flavors , refrigerate for about 30 minutes before serving . 
1 cup long grain white rice 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 1/2 cups chicken broth 1/2 onion , finely chopped 1/2 green bell pepper , finely chopped 1 fresh jalapeno pepper , chopped 1 tomato , seeded and chopped 1 cube chicken bouillon salt and pepper to taste 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 clove garlic , halved  | In a medium sauce pan , cook rice in oil over medium heat for about 3 minutes . Pour in chicken broth , and bring to a boil . Stir in onion , green pepper , jalapeno , and diced tomato . Season with bouillon cube , salt and pepper , cumin , cilantro , and garlic . Bring to a boil , cover , and reduce heat to low . Cook for 20 minutes . 
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 1 cup salsa 2 cups chopped cooked chicken breast meat 1 (15.5 ounce) can pinto beans , drained 6 (6 inch) flour tortillas 2 cups shredded Colby-Jack cheese  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a small saucepan over medium heat , combine the cream cheese and salsa . Cook , stirring until melted and well blended . Stir in chicken and pinto beans . Fill tortillas with the mixture , roll and place into the prepared baking dish . Spread cheese over the top . Cover with aluminum foil . Bake for 30 minutes , or until heated through . Garnish with your favorite toppings such as lettuce and tomatoes , or sour cream . 
Marinade 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 2 teaspoons lime zest 1 1/2 teaspoons honey 2 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon seafood seasoning , such as Old Bay™ 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce , or to taste 1 pound tilapia fillets , cut into chunks Dressing 1 (8 ounce) container light sour cream 1/2 cup adobo sauce from chipotle peppers 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 2 teaspoons lime zest 1/4 teaspoon cumin 1/4 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon seafood seasoning , such as Old Bay™ salt and pepper to taste Toppings 1 (10 ounce) package tortillas 3 ripe tomatoes , seeded and diced 1 bunch cilantro , chopped 1 small head cabbage , cored and shredded 2 limes , cut in wedges  | To make the marinade , whisk together the olive oil , vinegar , lime juice , lime zest , honey , garlic , cumin , chili powder , seafood seasoning , black pepper , and hot sauce in a bowl until blended . Place the tilapia in a shallow dish , and pour the marinade over the fish . Cover , and refrigerate 6 to 8 hours . To make the dressing , combine the sour cream and adobo sauce in a bowl . Stir in the lime juice , lime zest , cumin , chili powder , seafood seasoning . Add salt , and pepper in desired amounts . Cover , and refrigerate until needed . Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat and lightly oil grate . Set grate 4 inches from the heat . Remove fish from marinade , drain off any excess and discard marinade . Grill fish pieces until easily flaked with a fork , turning once , about 9 minutes . Assemble tacos by placing fish pieces in the center of tortillas with desired amounts of tomatoes , cilantro , and cabbage ; drizzle with dressing . To serve , roll up tortillas around fillings , and garnish with lime wedges . 
1 cup butter 1/2 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 2 teaspoons water 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup chopped almonds 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar  | In a medium bowl , cream the butter and sugar . Stir in vanilla and water . Add the flour and almonds , mix until blended . Cover and chill for 3 hours . Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Shape dough into balls or crescents . Place on an unprepared cookie sheet and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove from pan to cool on wire racks . When cookies are cool , roll in confectioners' sugar . Store at room temperature in an airtight container . 
1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup sliced green onions 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach , thawed , drained and squeezed dry 1 cup ricotta cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 10 (6 inch) corn tortillas 1 (19 ounce) can enchilada sauce  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat . Add garlic and onion ; cook for a few minutes until fragrant , but not brown . Stir in spinach , and cook for about 5 more minutes . Remove from the heat , and mix in ricotta cheese , sour cream , and 1 cup of Monterey Jack cheese . In a skillet over medium heat , warm tortillas one at a time until flexible , about 15 seconds . Spoon about 1/4 cup of the spinach mixture onto the center of each tortilla . Roll up , and place seam side down in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Pour enchilada sauce over the top , and sprinkle with the remaining cup of Monterey Jack . Bake for 15 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven , until sauce is bubbling and cheese is lightly browned at the edges . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 3/4 pound cubed skinless , boneless chicken breast meat 1/2 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (8.75 ounce) can sweet corn , drained 1/4 cup salsa water as needed 1 cup shredded Mexican-style cheese 1 1/2 cups crushed plain tortilla chips  | In a large skillet over medium high heat , saute chicken in oil until cooked through and no longer pink inside . Add taco seasoning , beans , corn , salsa and a little water to prevent drying out . Cover skillet and simmer over medium low heat for 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Transfer chicken mixture to a 9x13 inch baking dish . Top with 1/2 cup of the cheese and crushed tortilla chips . Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes . Add remaining 1/2 cup cheese and bake until cheese is melted and bubbly . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast , diced 1 (1.27 ounce) packet fajita seasoning 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 green bell peppers , chopped 2 red bell peppers , chopped 1 onion , chopped 10 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese 1 tablespoon bacon bits 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Preheat the broiler . Grease a baking sheet . Toss the chicken with the fajita seasoning , then spread onto the baking sheet . Place under the broiler and cook until the chicken pieces are no longer pink in the center , about 5 minutes . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Stir in the green bell peppers , red bell peppers , onion , and chicken . Cook and stir until the vegetables have softened , about 10 minutes . Layer half of each tortilla with the chicken and vegetable mixture , then sprinkle with the Cheddar cheese , bacon bits , and Monterey Jack . Fold the tortillas in half and Place onto a baking sheet . Bake quesadillas in the preheated oven until the cheeses have melted , about 10 minutes . 
1 1/2 pounds cod 1 cup salsa 1 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 1/2 cup coarsely crushed corn chips 1 avocado - peeled , pitted and sliced 1/4 cup sour cream  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . Lightly grease one 8x12 inch baking dish . Rinse fish fillets under cold water , and pat dry with paper towels . Lay fillets side by side in the prepared baking dish . Pour the salsa over the top , and sprinkle evenly with the shredded cheese . Top with the crushed corn chips . Bake , uncovered , in the preheated oven for 15 minutes , or until fish is opaque and flakes with a fork . Serve topped with sliced avocado and sour cream . 
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 tablespoon sour cream 1 (7 ounce) can tomatillo salsa 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 teaspoon celery salt 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons garlic powder 1 bunch fresh cilantro , chopped 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice  | Combine cream cheese , sour cream , salsa , pepper , celery salt , cumin , garlic powder , cilantro and lime juice in a blender or food processor . Blend until smooth and creamy . Place in a serving bowl . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 small onion , chopped 1 (1.5 ounce) package dry enchilada sauce mix 10 (10 inch) flour tortillas 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives , drained  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium skillet over medium high heat , cook the ground beef and onion until beef is evenly browned and onion is tender . Prepare the enchilada sauce according to package directions . Pour 1/4 cup of the sauce into the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . On each flour tortilla , place an equal portion of the ground beef mixture and about 1 ounce of Cheddar cheese , reserving at least 1/2 cup of cheese . Then tightly roll the tortillas and place seam side down in the baking dish . Pour the remaining sauce over the top of the enchiladas and sprinkle with the remaining cheese and olives . Bake in a preheated oven for 20 minutes , or until the sauce is bubbly and cheese is thoroughly melted . 
2 tomatoes , diced 1 onion , finely chopped 2 limes , juiced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and minced salt and pepper to taste 2 tablespoons olive oil , divided 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cut into strips 1/2 onion , thinly sliced 1 green bell pepper , thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic , minced 4 (12 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1/4 cup sour cream , for topping  | In a small bowl , combine tomatoes , onion , lime juice , cilantro , jalapeno , salt and pepper . Set aside . In a large skillet , heat 1 tablespoon olive oil . Add chicken and saute until cooked through and juices run clear . Remove chicken from skillet and set aside . Put the remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil in the hot skillet and saute the sliced onion and green pepper until tender . Stir in the minced garlic and saute until the aroma is strong . Mix in half of the pico de gallo and chicken breast meat . Set aside ; keep warm . In a heavy skillet , heat one flour tortilla . Spread 1/4 cup shredded cheese on the tortilla and top with 1/2 the chicken mixture . Sprinkle another 1/4 cup cheese over the chicken and top with another tortilla . When bottom tortilla is lightly brown and cheese has started to melt , flip quesadilla and cook on the opposite side . Remove quesadilla from skillet and cut into quarters . Repeat with remaining ingredients . Serve quesadillas with sour cream and remaining pico de gallo . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves garlic salt to taste 18 (6 inch) corn tortillas , torn in half 1 (28 ounce) can green chile enchilada sauce 1 (16 ounce) package shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 (8 ounce) container reduced fat sour cream  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Lightly grease a medium baking dish . Season chicken with garlic salt . Arrange in the prepared baking dish . Bake 45 minutes in the preheated oven , until no longer pink and juices run clear . Cool , shred , and set aside . With metal tongs , char each tortilla half over the open flame of a gas stove burner for about 1 minute , until lightly puffed . Pour about 1/2 inch enchilada sauce in the bottom of a medium baking dish , and arrange 6 tortillas in a single layer . Top with 1/2 the chicken , 1/3 cheese , 1/2 the sour cream , and 1/3 of the remaining enchilada sauce . Repeat . Coat remaining tortillas thoroughly with remaining enchilada sauce , and arrange on top of the layers . Sprinkle with remaining cheese , and top with any remaining enchilada sauce Cover , and bake 45 minutes in the preheated oven . Cool slightly before serving . 
3 tablespoons vegetable oil , divided 1 1/2 pounds ground turkey 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon chili pepper flakes 2 tablespoons tomato paste 1 (14.5 ounce) can beef broth 1 (7 ounce) can salsa 1 (14.5 ounce) can crushed tomatoes , or coarsely chopped tomatoes packed in puree 1 (7 ounce) can chopped green chile peppers 1 medium onion , finely chopped 1 green bell pepper , diced 3 medium zucchini , halved lengthwise and sliced 1 bunch green onions , chopped 1 cup sour cream 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large stock pot over medium-high heat . Crumble turkey into the pot , stirring with a wooden spoon to break apart as much as possible . Season with taco seasoning mix , coriander , oregano , chili flakes , and tomato paste , and mix until meat is evenly coated with seasonings . Continue cooking , reducing heat if necessary , until turkey is well browned . Pour in beef broth , and simmer to reduce liquid slightly , about 5 minutes . Add salsa , tomatoes , and green chilies , and continue cooking at a moderate simmer for ten minutes . Adjust the thickness at any time you feel necessary by adding water . While chili is still cooking , heat one tablespoon of oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook onion and green bell pepper , stirring occasionally for 5 minutes , or until onion is translucent and bell pepper is lightly browned . Add onion and bell pepper to the chili , and continue cooking at a very low simmer . In the same skillet , heat the remaining tablespoon of oil over medium-high heat . Add the zucchini , and cook stirring occasionally , for 5 minutes , or until lightly browned . Add the zucchini to the chili , reduce heat , and continue cooking 15 minutes more . Again , adjust the consistency with water as needed . Ladle chili into serving bowls . Top with sour cream , green onion , and cheddar cheese , and serve . 
2 (7 ounce) cans whole green chile peppers , drained 8 ounces Monterey Jack cheese , shredded 8 ounces Longhorn or Cheddar cheese , shredded 2 eggs , beaten 1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1/2 cup milk 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spray a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray . Lay half of the chilies evenly in bottom of baking dish . Sprinkle with half of the Jack and Cheddar cheeses , and cover with remaining chilies . In a bowl , mix together the eggs , milk , and flour , and pour over the top of the chilies . Bake in the preheated oven for 25 minutes . Remove from oven , pour tomato sauce evenly over the top , and continue baking another 15 minutes . Sprinkle with remaining Jack and Cheddar cheeses , and serve . 
10 cups water 2 tablespoons lard 2 cups dry pinto beans , rinsed 2 teaspoons salt  | Measure water and lard into a large pot . Bring to a boil and add beans . Cook over medium heat for 2 to 2 1/2 hours . Season with salt and continue cooking until tender , about 30 more minutes . 
2 (15 ounce) cans pinto beans , drained and rinsed 1 cup salsa , divided 2 cloves garlic , minced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1/2 cup chopped tomatoes 7 (8 inch) flour tortillas 2 cups shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese 1 cup salsa 1/2 cup sour cream  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a large bowl , mash pinto beans . Stir in 3/4 cup salsa and garlic . In a separate bowl , mix together 1/4 cup salsa , cilantro , black beans and tomatoes . Place 1 tortilla in a pie plate or tart dish . Spread 3/4 cup pinto bean mixture over tortilla to within 1/2 inch of edge . Top with 1/4 cup cheese , and cover with another tortilla . Spread with 2/3 cup black bean mixture , and top with 1/4 cup cheese . Repeat layering twice . Cover with remaining tortilla , and spread with remaining pinto bean mixture and cheese . Cover with foil , and bake in preheated oven for about 40 minutes . Cut into wedges , and serve with salsa and sour cream . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce 1/4 cup salsa 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 teaspoon ground cumin 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon chili powder hot sauce to taste  | Place chicken breasts and tomato sauce in a medium saucepan over medium high heat . Bring to a boil , then add the salsa , seasoning , cumin , garlic and chili powder . Let simmer for 15 minutes . With a fork , start pulling the chicken meat apart into thin strings . Keep cooking pulled chicken meat and sauce , covered , for another 5 to 10 minutes . Add hot sauce to taste and stir together (Note : You may need to add a bit of water if the mixture is cooked too high and gets too thick.) 
1 pound ground beef 1 1/2 cups chunky salsa 1 (10 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 3/4 cup creamy salad dressing (e.g . Miracle Whip) 1 teaspoon chili powder 2 cups crushed tortilla chips 2 cups Colby cheese  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Place ground beef in a large skillet over medium-high heat . Cook , stirring to crumble , until evenly browned . Drain grease . Remove from the heat , and stir the salsa , corn , mayonnaise and chili powder into the beef . In a 2 quart casserole dish , layer the ground beef mixture , tortilla chips and cheese twice , ending with cheese on top . Bake for 20 minutes uncovered in the preheated oven , until cheese is melted and dish is thoroughly heated . 
1 tablespoon olive oil 2 cloves garlic , minced 1 teaspoon minced onion 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 2 1/2 teaspoons chili powder 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon dried parsley 1/4 cup salsa 1 (6 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 1/2 cups water  | Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium heat . Add the garlic and saute for 1 to 2 minutes . Add the onion , oregano , chili powder , basil , ground black pepper , salt , cumin , parsley , salsa and tomato sauce . Mix together and then stir in the water . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes . 
2 avocados 1 small onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 ripe tomato , chopped 1 lime , juiced salt and pepper to taste  | Peel and mash avocados in a medium serving bowl . Stir in onion , garlic , tomato , lime juice , salt and pepper . Season with remaining lime juice and salt and pepper to taste . Chill for half an hour to blend flavors . 
2 cups cooked corn kernels 1/2 cup diced red onion 1 cup peeled , diced jicama 1/2 cup diced red bell pepper 1 cup fresh cilantro leaves , chopped 1 lime , juiced and zested 2 tablespoons cayenne pepper , or to taste 1 tablespoon ground black pepper 2 tablespoons salt , or to taste 6 (4 ounce) fillets tilapia 2 tablespoons olive oil 12 corn tortillas , warmed 2 tablespoons sour cream , or to taste  | Preheat grill for high heat . In a medium bowl , mix together corn , red onion , jicama , red bell pepper , and cilantro . Stir in lime juice and zest . In a small bowl , combine cayenne pepper , ground black pepper , and salt . Brush each fillet with olive oil , and sprinkle with spices to taste . Arrange fillets on grill grate , and cook for 3 minutes per side . For each fiery fish taco , top two corn tortillas with fish , sour cream , and corn salsa . 
1 1/2 pounds lean ground beef 1 bunch green onions , finely chopped 1 diced fresh jalapeno pepper , or to taste 1/4 cup water 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 cup plain yogurt 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese 6 (6 inch) corn tortillas  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet over medium heat , cook the ground beef , green onion , and jalapeno pepper until the beef is evenly brown . Stir in water and taco seasoning . Simmer until water has evaporated . In a medium bowl , mix together yogurt , condensed soup , and cheese . Divide the meat mixture evenly between tortillas . Place a couple of tablespoons of cheese mixture over meat , and roll up . Place in a 7x11 inch baking dish . Repeat for each tortilla . Spoon remaining cheese mixture over the top of the tortillas . Bake in preheated oven for 20 to 30 minutes . 
1 (21 ounce) can apple pie filling 6 (8 inch) flour tortillas 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/3 cup margarine 1/2 cup white sugar 1/2 cup packed brown sugar 1/2 cup water  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spoon fruit evenly onto all tortillas , sprinkle with cinnamon . Roll up tortillas and place seam side down on lightly greased 8x8 baking pan . Bring margarine , sugars and water to a boil in a medium sauce pan . Reduce heat and simmer , stirring constantly for 3 minutes . Pour sauce evenly over tortillas ; sprinkle with extra cinnamon on top if desired . Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes . Makes 6 large tortillas ; may be cut in half to serve 12 . 
2 cups diced chicken breast meat 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (4.5 ounce) can diced green chile peppers , drained 1 (10 ounce) can red enchilada sauce 8 (6 inch) corn tortillas 2 cups shredded Mexican blend cheese 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream  | Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Heat a large skillet over medium heat , and spray with vegetable cooking spray . Saute chicken with cumin and coriander until chicken is cooked through . Transfer to a medium bowl . Stir in the cilantro , black beans , and green chile peppers . Spread half of the enchilada sauce over the bottom of an 11x7 inch baking dish . Place 4 tortillas over the sauce , overlapping if necessary . Spoon half of the chicken mixture over the tortillas , and sprinkle with half of the cheese and half of the sour cream . Spoon the remaining enchilada sauce over the cheese , and make another layer of tortillas . Layer the remaining chicken mixture over the tortillas . Cover dish with a lid or aluminum foil . Bake for 30 minutes in the preheated oven . Remove the cover , and sprinkle the remaining cheese over the top and dot with sour cream . Continue cooking , uncovered , for an additional 5 to 10 minutes , or until cheese melts . Let stand 10 minutes before serving . 
1 pound lean ground beef 10 (6 inch) corn tortillas , quartered 1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 1/4 cups water 1 (12 ounce) jar chunky salsa 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 4 cups shredded Mexican cheese blend  | Crumble the ground beef into a skillet over medium-high heat . Cook and stir until evenly browned . Add taco seasoning and water ; simmer for 15 minutes over low heat . In a medium bowl , stir together the salsa , cream of mushroom soup and cream of chicken soup . Mix in most of the cheese , reserving 3/4 cup for later . Place a layer of tortillas covering the bottom of a slow cooker . Scoop a layer of the ground beef over that , and then spoon a layer of the cheese mixture . Repeat the layers until you run out of stuff , ending with a layer of tortillas on the top . Top with remaining cheese . Cover , and cook on High for 45 minutes to 1 hour . 
1 cup water 1/2 cup white sugar 3 avocados , peeled and pitted 1 lime , juiced 1/4 teaspoon salt  | Bring water and sugar to a boil together in a saucepan ; stir continually until sugar dissolves . Set aside to cool . Pour sugar-water mixture into a blender with avocados , lime juice , and salt ; blend until smooth . Pour the mixture into 10 ice pop molds . Freeze until solid yet still soft , about 2 hours ; insert wooden sticks and continue freezing until firm , 12 to 24 hours . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breasts cooking spray 1 clove garlic , minced 1 pinch salt 1 pinch ground black pepper 1 pinch ground cumin 1 cup salsa 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Heat a greased skillet to medium . Rub chicken pieces with garlic , salt , pepper and cumin to taste ; place in hot skillet . Cook until brown on both sides and no longer pink , 10 to 15 minutes . Transfer chicken to 9x13-inch baking dish or casserole dish , top with salsa and cheese , and bake in preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and starts to brown , 15 to 20 minutes . 
1/4 cup lime juice 1/3 cup water 2 tablespoons olive oil 4 cloves garlic , crushed 2 teaspoons soy sauce 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon liquid smoke flavoring 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper  | In a large resealable plastic bag , mix together the lime juice , water , olive oil , garlic , soy sauce , salt , and liquid smoke flavoring . Stir in cayenne and black pepper . Place desired meat in the marinade , and refrigerate at least 2 hours , or overnight . Cook as desired . 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 (1 pound) package frozen pepper and onion stir fry mix 2 cloves garlic , minced 3 tablespoons ground cumin 1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes 3 (4 ounce) cans chopped green chile peppers , drained 4 (14 ounce) cans vegetable broth salt and pepper to taste 1 (11 ounce) can whole kernel corn 12 ounces tortilla chips 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 avocado - peeled , pitted and diced  | Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat . Stir in the pepper and onion stir fry mix , garlic , and cumin , and cook 5 minutes , until vegetables are tender . Mix in the tomatoes and chile peppers . Pour in the broth , and season with salt and pepper . Bring to a boil , reduce heat to low , and simmer 30 minutes . Mix corn into the soup , and continue cooking 5 minutes . Serve in bowls over equal amounts of tortilla chips . Top with cheese and avocado . 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (8.75 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 pinch ground cumin  | In a large skillet , heat oil over medium high heat . Brown chicken breasts on both sides . Add tomatoes with green chile peppers , beans and corn . Reduce heat and let simmer for 25 to 30 minutes or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear . Add a dash of cumin and serve . 
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream 1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup 1/4 cup diced onion 1 (8 ounce) can chili beans , drained 6 (12 inch) flour tortillas , cut into strips 6 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cooked and shredded 4 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large bowl , mix sour cream , salsa , cream of chicken soup , onion and chili beans . Layer the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish with 1/3 tortilla strips . Top with 1/3 chicken , 1/3 sour cream mixture and 1/3 Cheddar cheese . Repeat layering with remaining ingredients . Bake in the preheated oven 20 to 30 minutes , or until golden and bubbly . Let stand about 10 minutes , or as long as you can stand it!! ! You're done ! 
3 tomatoes , chopped 1/2 cup finely diced onion 5 serrano chiles , finely chopped 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons lime juice  | In a medium bowl , stir together tomatoes , onion , chili peppers , cilantro , salt , and lime juice . Chill for one hour in the refrigerator before serving . 
1/2 cup butter , softened 1/3 cup masa harina 1/4 cup water 1 1/2 cups frozen whole-kernel corn , thawed 1/4 cup cornmeal 1/3 cup white sugar 2 tablespoons heavy whipping cream 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon baking powder  | In a medium bowl beat butter until it is creamy . Add the Mexican corn flour and water and beat until well mixed . Using a food processor , process thawed corn , but leave chunky . Stir into the butter mixture . In a separate bowl , mix cornmeal , sugar , cream , salt , and baking powder . Add to corn flour mixture and stir to combine . Pour batter into an ungreased 8x8 inch baking pan . Smooth batter and cover with aluminum foil . Place pan into a 9x13 inch baking dish that is filled a third of the way with water . Bake in a preheated 350 degree oven F (175 degrees C) oven for 50 to 60 minutes . Allow to cool for 10 minutes . Use an ice cream scoop for easy removal from pan . 
1 (16 ounce) can black beans 1 small onion , chopped 1 clove garlic , chopped 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper salt to taste  | In a medium saucepan , combine beans , onion , and garlic , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to medium-low . Season with cilantro , cayenne , and salt . Simmer for 5 minutes , and serve . 
2 cups uncooked brown rice 4 cups water 4 (15 ounce) cans black beans 2 (15.5 ounce) cans pinto beans 1 (10 ounce) can whole kernel corn 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes and green chiles 16 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 pound shredded pepperjack cheese  | Combine rice and water in a saucepan , and bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 35 to 40 minutes , or until tender . Remove from heat , and cool . Place black beans and pinto beans into a colander or strainer , and rinse . Add corn and diced tomatoes with green chilies , and toss to mix . Transfer to a large bowl , and mix in rice and cheese . Divide the mixture evenly among the tortillas , and roll up . Wrap individually in plastic wrap , place into a large freezer bag , and freeze . Reheat as needed in the microwave for lunch or snacks . 
2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 (1.27 ounce) packet dry fajita seasoning , divided 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 (15 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (11 ounce) can Mexican-style corn 1/2 cup salsa 1 (10 ounce) package mixed salad greens 1 onion , chopped 1 tomato , cut into wedges  | Rub chicken evenly with 1/2 the fajita seasoning . Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat , and cook the chicken 8 minutes on each side , or until juices run clear ; set aside . In a large saucepan , mix beans , corn , salsa and other 1/2 of fajita seasoning . Heat over medium heat until warm . Prepare the salad by tossing the greens , onion and tomato . Top salad with chicken and dress with the bean and corn mixture . 
1 onion , chopped 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans 1 (15 ounce) can black beans 1 (15 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle beer 2 (10 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with green chilies , undrained 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning 3 whole skinless , boneless chicken breasts 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese (optional) sour cream (optional) crushed tortilla chips (optional)  | Place the onion , chili beans , black beans , corn , tomato sauce , beer , and diced tomatoes in a slow cooker . Add taco seasoning , and stir to blend . Lay chicken breasts on top of the mixture , pressing down slightly until just covered by the other ingredients . Set slow cooker for low heat , cover , and cook for 5 hours . Remove chicken breasts from the soup , and allow to cool long enough to be handled . Stir the shredded chicken back into the soup , and continue cooking for 2 hours . Serve topped with shredded Cheddar cheese , a dollop of sour cream , and crushed tortilla chips , if desired . 
1 1/2 pounds boneless skinless chicken breasts , cut into bite-size pieces 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 clove garlic , minced 3 tablespoons butter 2 cubes chicken bouillon 1 cup hot water 3/4 teaspoon ground cumin 2 cups half-and-half cream 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 (14.75 ounce) can cream-style corn 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles 1 dash hot pepper sauce 1 tomato , chopped fresh cilantro sprigs , for garnish (optional)  | In a Dutch oven , brown chicken , onion , and garlic in butter until chicken is no longer pink . Dissolve the bouillon in hot water ; Pour into Dutch oven , and season with cumin . Bring to a boil . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer for 5 minutes . Stir in cream , cheese , corn , chilies , and hot pepper sauce . Cook , stirring frequently , until the cheese is melted . Stir in chopped tomato . Garnish with cilantro . 
1 bunch cilantro 1 cup sour cream 2 (7 ounce) cans jalapeno salsa 2 (7 ounce) cans prepared green chile salsa 2 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves , cooked and shredded 1 onion 12 (6 inch) flour tortillas 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese  | To Make Sour Cream Mixture : In a blender or food processor , puree cilantro , sour cream , jalapeno salsa and 1/2 can of the green chile salsa . Set aside . To Make Chicken Mixture : In a large bowl , combine shredded chicken , onion and the remaining 1 1/2 cans of green chile salsa . Mix well . Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Heat tortillas in conventional or microwave oven until soft . Pour enough of the sour cream mixture into a 9x13 inch baking dish to coat the bottom . Place 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of the chicken mixture in each tortilla , roll up and place seam side down in the baking dish . Pour remaining sour cream mixture over all and top with shredded cheese . Cover dish tightly with aluminum foil and bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for about 30 minutes , or until dish is heated through and bubbling . 
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese , softened 1 1/2 cups white sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 2 (8 ounce) cans crescent roll dough 1/2 cup melted butter 1/2 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 cup sliced almonds  | Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Beat the cream cheese with 1 1/2 cups of sugar , and the vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth . Unroll the cans of crescent roll dough , and use a rolling pin to shape the each piece into 9x13 inch rectangles . Press one piece into the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Evenly spread the cream cheese mixture into the baking dish , then cover with the remaining piece of crescent dough . Drizzle the melted butter evenly over the top of the cheesecake . Stir the remaining 1/2 cup of sugar together with the cinnamon in a small bowl , and sprinkle over the cheesecake along with the almonds . Bake in the preheated oven until the crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown , about 45 minutes . Cool completely in the pan before cutting into 12 squares . 
4 bone-in chicken breast halves 2 tablespoons olive oil 1 (4 ounce) can diced green chile peppers , drained 1 jalapeno pepper , chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese , divided 1/2 cup water 8 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup heavy cream  | Place the chicken breast halves into a saucepan , and fill with enough water to cover . Bring to a boil , and cook until the chicken is cooked through , about 20 minutes . Remove from the water , and set aside to cool . Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Remove the chicken meat from the breasts , and discard the skin and bones . Set aside . Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat . Add the green chilies , jalapeno and garlic . Cook and stir for a few minutes , until fragrant , then stir in the cream cheese and half of the Monterey Jack . As the cheese begins to melt , gradually stir in the water . Chop the chicken meat , and stir into the skillet . Remove from the heat . Spoon the chicken mixture into tortillas , and roll up . Place the rolls seam side down in a 9x13 inch baking dish . Sprinkle the remaining Monterey Jack cheese over the top , then pour cream over all . Bake for 30 minutes in the preheated oven , or until the enchiladas are golden brown on the top . 
2 avocados 1/2 lemon , juiced 2 tablespoons chopped onion 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons olive oil  | Cut the avocados into halves . Remove the seeds , and scoop out the pulp into a small bowl . Use a fork to mash the avocado . Stir in lemon juice , onion , salt , and olive oil . Cover the bowl , and refrigerate for 1 hour before serving . 
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , softened 1 cup sour cream 2 (16 ounce) cans refried beans 1/2 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 5 drops hot pepper sauce 2 tablespoons dried parsley 1/4 cup chopped green onions 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese 1 (8 ounce) package shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , blend the cream cheese and sour cream . Mix in the refried beans , taco seasoning , hot pepper sauce , parsley , green onions , 1/2 the Cheddar cheese and 1/2 the Monterey Jack cheese . Transfer the mixture to an 8x12 inch baking dish . Top with remaining Cheddar and Monterey Jack cheeses . Bake in the preheated oven 20 to 30 minutes , until cheese is slightly browned . 
1 1/2 pounds ground beef 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 4 cups shredded Cheddar-Monterey Jack cheese blend 1 (8 ounce) container sour cream 1 cup guacamole 1 cup salsa 1 (2.25 ounce) can black olives , chopped 1/2 cup chopped tomatoes 1/2 cup chopped green onions  | In a large skillet , brown ground beef . Set aside to drain and cool to room temperature . Spread the beans into the bottom of a 9x13 inch serving tray that is about 1 1/2 inches deep . Sprinkle 2 cups of shredded cheese on top of beans . Sprinkle beef on top of cheese . Spread sour cream very slowly on top of beef . Spread guacamole on top of sour cream . Pour salsa over guacamole and spread evenly . Sprinkle remaining shredded cheese . Sprinkle black olives , tomatoes , and green onions on top . You can serve this dish immediately , or refrigerate it over night and serve cold . I think it tastes better at room temperature . 
1 (6 ounce) can frozen limeade concentrate 6 fluid ounces tequila 2 fluid ounces triple sec  | Fill blender with crushed ice . Pour in limeade concentrate , tequila and triple sec . Blend until smooth . Pour into glasses and serve . 
2 cups water 1 tablespoon butter 1 cup long-grain white rice 1 teaspoon lime zest 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 1/2 cup chopped cilantro  | Bring the water to a boil ; stir the butter and rice into the water . Cover , reduce heat to low , and simmer until the rice is tender , about 20 minutes . Stir the lime zest , lime juice , and cilantro into the cooked rice just before serving . 
1 cup water 2 1/2 tablespoons white sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup all-purpose flour 2 quarts oil for frying 1/2 cup white sugar , or to taste 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon  | In a small saucepan over medium heat , combine water , 2 1/2 tablespoons sugar , salt and 2 tablespoons vegetable oil . Bring to a boil and remove from heat . Stir in flour until mixture forms a ball . Heat oil for frying in deep-fryer or deep skillet to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Pipe strips of dough into hot oil using a pastry bag . Fry until golden ; drain on paper towels . Combine 1/2 cup sugar and cinnamon . Roll drained churros in cinnamon and sugar mixture . 
4 skinless , boneless chicken breast halves - cooked and shredded 1 (8 ounce) jar picante sauce 1/4 teaspoon ground cumin 8 ounces shredded Monterey Jack cheese 8 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese 36 (6 inch) corn tortillas 1 tablespoon vegetable oil  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a medium bowl combine the shredded chicken , picante sauce and ground cumin . Mix together . In a small skillet heat vegetable oil over medium high heat . Place a corn tortilla in the oil for 1 to 2 seconds on either side to soften . Repeat with all of the tortillas (if possible , have someone help you do this) . Place tortillas on paper towel to soak up some of the oil . Put 1 tablespoon of the chicken mixture in the center of a tortilla and sprinkle some cheese on top . Roll up tortilla and place on a lightly greased cookie sheet , seam side down . Repeat with all of the tortillas until chicken mixture is gone . If there is any cheese left over , sprinkle it over the rolled tortillas . Bake tortillas in the preheated oven for 15 to 25 minutes or until tortillas are a little crispy and golden brown . 
Chicken filling : 2 large skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 3 cups water 1 tablespoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 (7 ounce) can chopped green chilies , divided 1/2 cup diced onion 3 large cloves garlic , minced Sour cream sauce : 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 cup water 1 cube chicken bouillon 1/2 cup sour cream salt and pepper to taste oil for frying 8 (8 inch) flour tortillas 8 ounces shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Place the chicken breasts into a large saucepan . Pour in the water , and season with chili powder , 1/2 teaspoon salt , cumin , 1/4 teaspoon black pepper , garlic powder , onion powder , and cayenne pepper . Bring to a simmer over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer 15 minutes . After 15 minutes , stir in 4 ounces of green chiles , onion , and garlic ; continue simmering until the liquid has reduced to 1 cup . Reserve remaining 3 ounces of chopped green chilies . Remove the chicken , shred with two forks , and return to the onion mixture . Meanwhile , melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat . Stir in the flour , and cook for 1 minute . Whisk in the water and bouillon cube until the water has thickened and the bouillon cube has dissolved , about 4 minutes . Whisk in reserved 3 ounces of green chilies and the sour cream ; season to taste with salt and pepper . Keep warm . Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Place a tortilla onto your work surface , then spoon about 1/3 cup of the chicken filling halfway between the bottom edge and the center of the tortilla . Flatten the filling into rectangle shape with the back of a spoon . Sprinkle about 1 ounce of the Monterey Jack cheese over the filling . Fold the bottom of the tortilla snugly over the filling , then fold in the left and right edges . Roll the chimichanga up to the top edge , forming a tight cylinder ; secure the ends with wooden toothpicks . Repeat with the remaining ingredients . Cook the chimichangas , 2 at a time , in the hot oil until they are crisp and golden brown on both sides , about 1 minute per side . Drain on a paper towel-lined plate , and remove toothpicks . Top with sour cream sauce to serve . 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 teaspoons chili powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin  | Stir cornstarch , chili powder , salt , paprika , sugar , onion powder , garlic powder , cayenne pepper , and cumin together in a small bowl . 
1 jalapeno pepper , seeded and coarsely chopped 1 clove garlic 3/4 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root 1/4 cup lime juice 1/3 cup honey 2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar 1/2 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 cup packed cilantro leaves 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil  | Place the jalapeno pepper , garlic clove , and ginger into a food processor or blender ; pulse until the jalapeno and garlic are finely chopped . Pour in the lime juice , honey , balsamic vinegar , and salt , add the cilantro leaves ; pulse a few times to blend . Turn the food processor or blender on , and slowly drizzle in the olive oil until incorporated into the dressing . Season to taste with salt before serving . 
1 pound skinless , boneless chicken breast halves 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1/2 cup diced onion 1 clove garlic , minced 1 quart chicken broth 1 cup masa harina 3 cups water , divided 1 cup enchilada sauce 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chili powder 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin  | In a large pot over medium heat , cook chicken breasts in oil until well browned on all sides . Remove and set aside . Cook onion and garlic in remaining oil until onions are translucent . Pour in chicken broth . In a bowl , whisk together masa harina and 2 cups water until well blended . Pour into pot with remaining 1 cup water , enchilada sauce , Cheddar , salt , chili powder and cumin . Bring to a boil . Shred cooked chicken and add it to the pot . Reduce heat and simmer 30 to 40 minutes , until thickened . 
2 pounds lean ground beef 2 (1.25 ounce) packages taco seasoning mix 4 cloves garlic , minced 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon chili powder 1/2 cup water 18 (6 inch) corn tortillas 1 (24 ounce) jar salsa 1 cup sliced green onion 1 (16 ounce) container sour cream 1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 1/2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Place ground beef in a large , deep skillet . Cook over medium high heat until evenly brown . Drain , then season with taco seasoning , garlic , cayenne pepper , chili powder and water . Simmer for 10 minutes . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish . Place 6 tortillas into the prepared baking dish . Spread 1/3 of the salsa on top of the tortillas . Spread 1/2 of the meat mixture evenly over the salsa . Sprinkle with 1/2 of the green onions . Drop 1/2 of the sour cream randomly over the green onions . Top with 1/2 cup Cheddar and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack cheese . Repeat layers . Top with 6 tortillas , spread with remaining salsa , and sprinkle with remaining cheese . Bake in a preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes or until cheeses are melted . 
3 pounds beef chuck roast 1/4 cup water 1 1/2 cups beef broth 3 tablespoons red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons chili powder 1 tablespoon ground cumin 1 large onion , chopped 2 (4 ounce) cans chopped green chile peppers 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour 2 cups sour cream 3 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese , divided 1 cup oil for frying 20 (6 inch) corn tortillas  | Place roast in a large saucepan that has a tight-fitting lid . Pour in water , cover , and simmer on low for 30 minutes . Increase heat to medium/high , and brown the roast on all sides . Once the water has boiled away , pour in the beef broth , vinegar , chili powder and 1 tablespoon of cumin . Cover tightly and reduce heat to low . Simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until the beef falls apart when you try to pick it up . Shred the beef , using 2 forks or your fingers . Place shredded beef back into the saucepan with all the juices , and let cool to room temperature . In a large skillet , saute the onion until just soft , not browned . Mix in flour and green chilies . Stir constantly for 2 minutes to cook the flour taste out . Stir in sour cream and 2 cups of Monterey Jack cheese . Cook on low for 10 minutes , stirring often , until the cheese is all melted and mixed . Set aside and let cool . In a large heavy skillet , heat the olive oil . Using tongs dip the tortillas , one at a time , into the oil for 30 seconds each side . Drain on paper towels . Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Spread 4 tablespoons of sour cream mixture down the center of the tortilla . Top with about the same amount of beef . Roll up and place seam side down in one or two 8x11 inch baking dish . Repeat for each tortilla . Continue until you are out of the filling . Sprinkle with remaining Monterey Jack cheese . Bake in a pre-heated oven for 30 minutes or until cheese is melted and bubbling . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 1 (16 ounce) can chili beans 1 (16 ounce) bottle French dressing 1 head iceberg lettuce 1 (14.5 ounce) package tortilla chips 2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup chopped tomatoes 4 tablespoons sour cream 1/2 cup prepared salsa  | In a large skillet over medium-high heat , brown the ground beef and drain excess fat . Stir in the taco seasoning , chili beans and French-style dressing . Fill the dressing bottle 2/3 full of water and add to the skillet . Bring to a boil , reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes . Crush the bag of chips , open the bag , and toss the broken chips into a large bowl with the lettuce , cheese and tomatoes . When the meat mixture is done , combine it with the lettuce , tomatoes , chips and mix well . Then , add salsa and sour cream . 
1 pound tomatillos , husked 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 serrano chile peppers , minced 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro 1 tablespoon chopped fresh oregano 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , or to taste 2 cups water  | Place tomatillos , onion , garlic , and chile pepper into a saucepan . Season with cilantro , oregano , cumin , and salt ; pour in water . Bring to a boil over high heat , then reduce heat to medium-low , and simmer until the tomatillos are soft , 10 to 15 minutes . Using a blender , carefully puree the tomatillos and water in batches until smooth . 
1 (10.75 ounce) can Campbell's® Condensed Cream of Chicken Soup (Regular , 98% Fat Free or Healthy Request®) 1/2 cup sour cream 1 cup Pace® Picante Sauce 2 teaspoons chili powder 2 cups chopped cooked chicken 1/2 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 6 flour tortillas (6") , warmed 1 small tomato , chopped 1 green onion , sliced  | Stir the soup , sour cream , picante sauce and chili powder in a medium bowl . Stir 1 cup picante sauce mixture , chicken and cheese in a large bowl . Divide the chicken mixture among the tortillas . Roll up the tortillas and place them seam side up in 11 x 8" shallow baking dish . Pour the remaining picante sauce mixture over the filled tortillas . Cover the baking dish . Bake at 350 degrees F . for 40 min . or until the enchiladas are hot and bubbling . Top with the tomato and onion . 
3 cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 2 teaspoons salt 3/4 cup shortening 3/4 cup hot water  | Combine the flour , baking powder , and salt . Either by hand or with a pastry cutter , cut in the shortening till the mixture is crumbly . If the mixture looks more floury than crumbly , be sure to add just one or two more tablespoons of shortening till it is crumbly . Add about 3/4 cup hot water to the mixture , or just enough to make the ingredients look moist . With your hand or a large fork , knead the mixture making sure to rub the dough against the sides of the large mixing bowl to gather any clinging dough . If the dough still sticks to the side of the bowl , add a couple more tablespoons of flour until the dough forms a soft round shape . The dough is ready to roll out now , but it is best to let it rest . Cover it with a dish towel , and let it sit for about an hour or so . Take the dough , and pull it apart into 10 to 12 balls . Lightly flour your rolling area , and roll each ball with a rolling pin to about 1/8 inch thickness . Place each tortilla on a medium hot cast iron skillet . Cook for about 1 to 2 minutes on each side , or until the tortilla does not look doughy . 
cooking spray 2 pounds ground beef 2 cups diced poblano peppers 1 teaspoon salt 1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon ground dried chipotle pepper 2 (8.5 ounce) boxes dry corn muffin mix (such as Jiffy®) 2 eggs 2/3 cup milk , divided 4 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese , divided 4 ounces shredded Monterey Jack cheese , divided 8 ounces frozen corn , thawed  | Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Spray a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray . Cook and stir ground beef in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat until meat starts to brown and release juices , about 5 minutes . Reduce heat to medium and stir in poblano peppers , salt , salsa , oregano , and chipotle powder ; cook and stir until seasoned beef is crumbly and no longer pink , about 10 minutes . Mix one package of corn muffin mix in a large bowl with 1 egg and 1/3 cup of milk . Whisk to combine . In a separate large bowl , mix the second package of corn muffin mix with 1 egg , 1/3 cup of milk and half the Cheddar and Monterey Jack cheeses . Spread the prepared corn muffin mixture without cheese into the prepared baking dish . Sprinkle corn over the muffin mix , followed by remaining half of the cheeses , then the beef mixture . Spoon the corn muffin mix with cheese on top of the beef and carefully spread over the top with a fork , leaving about half an inch from the edges of the pan . Bake in the preheated oven for 50-60 minutes , until golden brown . 
1 (3 pound) boneless pork loin roast , cut into 2 inch pieces 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 (4 ounce) cans diced green chile peppers 3 cloves garlic , crushed 1/4 cup chipotle sauce 3 1/4 cups water , divided 1 1/2 cups uncooked long grain white rice 1/4 cup fresh lime juice 1/4 cup chopped cilantro  | Place the roast in a slow cooker , and season with salt . Place chile peppers and garlic on top of roast . Pour in the chipotle sauce and 1/2 cup water . Cover , and cook 7 hours on Low . In a pot , bring remaining 2 3/4 cups water and rice to a boil . Mix in the lime juice and cilantro . Reduce heat to low , cover , and simmer 20 minutes . Remove roast from the slow cooker , and use two forks to shred . Return pork to the slow cooker , and allow to sit 15 minutes to absorb some of the liquid . Serve over the cooked rice . 
1 pound ground beef 1 small onion , diced 1 clove garlic , minced 1 (1 ounce) packet taco seasoning mix 1 (16 ounce) bag frozen Mexican-style corn 1 (12 ounce) can black beans , rinsed and drained 1 (12 ounce) bag shredded Mexican cheese blend 1 (16 ounce) package frozen tater tots 1 (12 fluid ounce) can enchilada sauce  | Preheat an oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Prepare a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray . Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until completely browned , 5 to 7 minutes . Add the onion , garlic , taco seasoning mix , frozen Mexican-style corn , and black beans to the ground beef ; cook and stir another 10 minutes . Set aside to cool slightly . Combine the ground beef mixture in a large bowl with about 3/4 of the Mexican cheese blend and the tater tots ; stir to combine . Pour about 1/3 of the enchilada sauce into the bottom of the prepared baking dish . Add the tater tot mixture to the baking dish ; lightly pat the mixture down into a solid , even layer . Pour the remaining enchilada sauce over the tater tot layer . Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes . Sprinkle the remaining Mexican cheese over the casserole and return to oven until the cheese is melted and bubbly , about 5 minutes more . 
1 (16 ounce) jar salsa 1 (10 ounce) package frozen chopped spinach , thawed and drained 2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese , diced and softened 1 cup evaporated milk 1 (2.25 ounce) can chopped black olives , drained 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar salt and pepper to taste  | Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C) . In a medium baking dish , mix together salsa , chopped spinach , Monterey Jack cheese , cream cheese , evaporated milk , black olives , red wine vinegar , salt and pepper . Bake mixture in the preheated oven 12 to 15 minutes , or until bubbly . 
1 onion , chopped 1 tablespoon butter 1/2 pound fresh crabmeat 1/4 pound shrimp - peeled , deveined and coarsely chopped 8 ounces Colby cheese 6 (10 inch) flour tortillas 1 cup half-and-half cream 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup butter , melted 1 1/2 teaspoons dried parsley 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . In a large skillet , saute onions in 1 tablespoon butter until transparent . Remove the skillet from heat and stir in crabmeat and shrimp . Shred the cheese and mix half of it into the seafood . Place a large spoonful of the mixture into each tortilla . Roll the tortillas up around the mixture and arrange the rolled tortillas in a 9x13 inch baking dish . In a saucepan over medium-low heat , combine half-and-half , sour cream , 1/4 cup butter , parsley and garlic salt . Stir until the mixture is lukewarm and blended . Pour sauce over the enchiladas , and sprinkle with remaining cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes . 
1 pound lean ground beef 1 (15 ounce) can ranch-style beans 1 (14.5 ounce) can peeled and diced tomatoes 1 (10.75 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 (12 ounce) package corn tortillas 4 cups shredded Cheddar cheese 2 tablespoons chili powder  | Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) . Brown the ground beef in a large skillet over medium high heat . Add chili powder , beans , tomatoes and soup ; mix well and heat thoroughly . Line a 13x9 inch dish with tortillas . Then make a layer with the meat mixture . Make another row of tortillas , then finish off with rest of meat mixture . Top with grated cheese . Bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes . 
1 (1.5 ounce) package dry enchilada sauce mix 1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste 3/4 cup water 1 1/2 pounds ground beef 1 teaspoon garlic salt 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1 (16 ounce) can refried beans 1 (12 ounce) package corn tortillas 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese 1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . In a medium bowl , mix the dry enchilada sauce according to package directions , replacing tomato sauce with the tomato paste and water In a large skillet , brown the ground beef with garlic salt and onion powder ; drain fat . Mix refried beans and 1/2 cup of the prepared enchilada sauce with the meat . Dip enough corn tortillas to cover the bottom of a 3 quart casserole dish in the remaining enchilada sauce . Arrange tortillas in the dish . Spoon in half of the meat mixture , covering the tortillas . Spread half of the Cheddar and Monterey Jack cheeses over the meat . Cover with another layer tortillas dipped in enchilada sauce . Spoon in remaining meat mixture and top with a final layer of tortillas dipped in enchilada sauce . Pour any remaining sauce over the layers and top with remaining cheese . Cover and bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes . Remove from oven and let sit for 5 minutes before serving . 
4 pounds pork shoulder roast 2 (4 ounce) cans diced green chilies , drained 1/4 cup chili powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 1 teaspoon taco seasoning 2 teaspoons minced garlic 1 1/2 teaspoons salt , or to taste  | Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) . Place the roast on top of a large piece of aluminum foil . In a small bowl , stir together the green chiles , chili powder , oregano , taco seasoning and garlic . Rub onto the roast . Wrap foil around the roast so that it is completely covered , using additional aluminum foil if necessary . Place on top of a roasting rack in a baking dish , or place a cookie sheet on an oven rack below to catch any leaks . Roast the meat for 3 1/2 to 4 hours in the preheated oven , until falling apart . Cook to at least 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) . Remove from the oven , and shred into small pieces using two forks . Season with salt to taste . 
Cornbread Crust : 1/2 cup butter 1 onion , finely chopped 1 clove garlic , minced 1 (15.25 ounce) can whole kernel corn , drained 1 (15 ounce) can cream-style corn , drained 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup egg substitute 1 (8.5 ounce) package corn bread mix Chicken Topping : 2 1/3 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 2 tablespoons canned green chile peppers , chopped 4 ounces sliced fresh mushrooms 1 1/2 cups reduced-fat sour cream 1/4 teaspoon salt , or to taste 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper , or to taste 1 (8 ounce) package Monterey Jack cheese , shredded  | Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) . Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish . Melt butter in a small skillet over medium heat . Add onion and garlic ; cook and stir until tender , 4 to 6 minutes (see Cook's Note) . Remove from heat and set aside . In a large bowl , combine corn , cream-style corn , salt , and egg substitute . Beat in muffin mix . Fold in cooked onion mixture . Pour into prepared baking dish . In a large bowl , combine chicken , green chiles , mushrooms , sour cream , salt and pepper . Spoon over corn mixture to within 1 inch from edge . Sprinkle top with cheese . Bake in preheated oven for 35 to 40 minutes , or until edges are golden brown . 
